The Project Gutenberg eBook of Old Bear-Paw, The Trapper King, by Max
Martine

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Old Bear-Paw, The Trapper King
       The Love of a Blackfoot Queen

Author: Max Martine

Release Date: July 12, 2022 [eBook #68513]

Language: English

Produced by: David Edwards, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (Northern
             Illinois University Digital Library)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OLD BEAR-PAW, THE TRAPPER
KING ***





                             OLD BEAR-PAW,

                           THE TRAPPER KING;

                                  OR,

                    THE LOVE OF A BLACKFOOT QUEEN.

                         BY MAJ. MAX MARTINE.

              AUTHOR OF POCKET NOVEL No. 67. "SHARP-EYE."

                               NEW YORK:
                     BEADLE AND ADAMS, PUBLISHERS,
                          98 WILLIAM STREET.

       Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873 by
                           BEADLE AND ADAMS,
      In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.




                              CHAPTER I.

                           THE BROKEN CHIEF.


"I wonder what has become of that everlasting Yankee? He promised to
meet me here at noon, yet I have stood here and seen the shadows of
these old pines lengthen for the last hour. Surely something must have
happened to detain him, for he never deceived me yet, and I do not like
to believe he will commence now--"

"Yew are 'tarnal right; he won't!" interrupted the second speaker, who
was no other than the "everlasting Yankee" himself.

Thus soliloquized the celebrated scout, Lew Kelly, and thus replied
his tried friend and companion, Jehiel Filkins, as they stood upon a
peak of the Black Hills, west a five-day's ride from Fort Randall--the
nearest place where white men could be found, for they were already in
the hunting-grounds of the Blackfeet.

The two scouts, well-mounted, and armed to the teeth, were spending
a sort of vacation in that dreaded vicinity to satisfy themselves as
to the truth of certain rumors, rife at Fort Randall and Yankton,
concerning the gold, which it was asserted was laying around loose
in the ravines and damp, dark gulches of the Black Hills; and of the
existence, in the hills and valleys of the North-west, of bear, elk,
antelope and beaver, which an adventurous scout had asserted made that
country a perfect paradise for the hunter and trapper.

They had gone far enough, and seen enough to convince them that there
was good foundation for these rumors. Gold they had found in the black
sand washed down from the hills, and in the quartz ledges underlying or
jutting out from the very crag upon which they stood. As to game, they
wondered they had not heard of it before, so abundant was it.

"What was you sayin', Lew?" asked Filkins. "Are you getting in a hurry
to go home? Wal, I ain't, then. There ain't an Ingin within forty miles
of here, and if there was I know you would not be afeared of them; but
if you will wait just a week longer I will go _anywhere_ with you, if
it's to Halifax."

"You said those same words, ten days ago, Jehiel, yet here we are, a
hundred miles further west than we were then."

"Sartin!" replied Jehiel. "But what's the hurry, Lew? You're too old a
scout to get homesick so soon; I wouldn't."

"Mighty good reason why you wouldn't, and why you never tire out or get
homesick. _Your_ home is wherever you happen to find yourself, and you
care for nothing but that old coat of yours. Besides, you forget that
away over the hills there a dear little wife is waiting and watching
for me, and no doubt alarmed at my protracted stay."

"Jes' so, Lew. A scout has no business gettin' married. It e'ena'most
makes a coward outen him--"

"You lie, and you know it!" exclaimed the scout, angrily. "Have you
forgotten our fight with the Blackfeet, two years ago? Where would your
old yellow scalp have gone to then, if it had not been for me? And
wasn't I married then, you old fool?"

"Cor-reck, Lew; I take it all back, and beg yer pardon. But, I never
see'd such a kentry fur game as this, and besides, I hev' jes' set my
heart on goin' over to that round peak there where it looks so foggy.
You see it is right on the home stretch, and I can camp there while you
pack up and foller to-morrer."

"All right, Jehiel; I will wait another day. But if you are bound to go
you had better make a start; it is a good ten miles over there and a
pretty rough trail."

"Cor-reck ag'in, Lew, and I'll jog along."

And the Yankee shouldered his rifle and started for the designated
point. He was soon out of sight of the scout, who descended the western
slope of the bluff and made his way to their camp, beside a limpid
stream which flowed through the valley to the north.

He had nearly reached his camp when a sight met his eye which caused
him to halt and take shelter behind a tree.

He saw, coming down the valley from the west, three persons on
horseback, who seemed to be riding for dear life.

Two rode side by side, and fully a hundred yards in advance of the
third, and all were lashing their horses to their best speed.

Of those pursued, one was evidently a female, and as she was bound, it
was also evident that she was a prisoner.

The Indian in the rear, who was in such hot pursuit of the foremost,
was lashing his horse in a perfect fury; and as they passed the tree
where the scout was concealed, he said:

"It looks like a long chase, but I don't see any signs of anybody after
them. If the squaw was only a white woman I would sail in and help her
out of the fix--but then it is none of my business, and I guess I won't
meddle. And I reckon they have too much on their hands now to take any
notice of me."

Just as he reached his camp he looked after the Indians and saw the
horse of the pursuer drop dead from exhaustion, and its rider was
thrown violently upon the rocky path.

The Indian lay so very still that the scout thought he must be dead,
and he started out to ascertain.

As he approached the fallen Indian, he discovered that he was still
conscious, though unable to stand upon his feet.

The Indian was the first to break silence.

"Me know you--you are White Panther!"

"Yes, that is what some folks call me. But who are you, and what is the
matter with you?"

"Me Gray Eagle, big chief of the Blackfeet. Heap matter! Leg broke, arm
broke! Red Pine, the Sioux, has stolen Snowdrop, the daughter of Gray
Eagle, and if I can not get her back, then my heart broke!"

"Then you are old Gray Eagle, are you? Are you alone?"

"Gray Eagle all alone. Kill him if you want."

"Well, I don't know as I want to; scalping broken-legged Indians is not
my business, just now. But, I'll tell you what I will do! If you will
agree not to make war upon the whites again, but let them hunt and trap
in these hills when they please, I will go for Snowdrop, and I will not
return until I bring her and Red Pine's scalp! What do you say?"

"Gray Eagle will promise!"

"But your promise is not worth shucks unless you swear to it."

"Gray Eagle will swear!"

"Swear by the Great Spirit?"

"Yes."

"Swear by your knife and your tomahawk, and your horse?--even if he is
dead he is good enough to swear by."

"Yes, I swear by all these that I will be a friend to the pale-faces as
long as I live if Snowdrop is saved."

"Well, I don't know but that is about all you can do, and I will trust
you; though if Jehiel was here he would say, 'Shoot him and let the
Sioux keep the gal.' But I will carry you to my camp, and then I will
go for Snowdrop; and I'll get her, too, if I have to follow Red Pine
clear home!"

The scout raised the chief in his arms and carried him to the camp.

"There," he said, as he laid the chief upon a blanket, "you keep quiet
until I come back."

He called his horse, a beautiful black stallion, and mounting, started
on the trail of the Sioux.




                              CHAPTER II.

                               SMITTEN.


The daughter of Gray Eagle was one of the very few handsome Indian
women. Though not more than sixteen years of age, she deserved the
proud distinction she had won of being the flower of the Blackfoot
nation, and the only really beautiful girl in the tribe.

Dozens of chiefs had sought in vain to win her heart; even brave
warriors from other tribes had offered fabulous gifts for her; but her
father gave them all the same answer--that Snowdrop was the idol of his
heart, and that he would not force her to marry a brave she did not
like.

As for Snowdrop herself, she had never loved any one except her father,
and consequently none of the braves received any encouragement.

But, Red Pine, a cruel chief of the Sioux, had seen her, and with him,
to see her was to covet her; so he did not ask the consent of any one,
but, watching his chance when the Blackfeet were nearly all gone on a
hunt, and Gray Eagle was confined by sickness, he had stolen her away.

Gray Eagle had followed on the trail, and when within rifle-shot of the
Sioux, had met with the accident already narrated.

Red Pine, seeing the fall of Gray Eagle, immediately slackened his
speed so as to save his horse as much as possible; for the chase
had been a long one, and they were now fully thirty miles from the
Blackfoot village. But he would not have ridden so slowly had he known
who was upon his trail in the place of Gray Eagle.

"Would Snowdrop like to rest?" he asked.

The only reply he received was a flash of scorn from the wondrously
black eyes of the captive.

"Ugh!" he grunted. "Snowdrop mad now, but by-and-by Red Pine _make_ her
talk!"

Snowdrop looked back to see what had become of her father, as she could
no longer hear the sound of his horse's feet.

Red Pine also looked back and saw, what she evidently did not, that a
well-armed and well-mounted white man was upon his trail. Furiously he
lashed the horses ridden by himself and Snowdrop, and once more they
flew down the rough valley.

Not long before he had received a severe chastisement at the hands of
a party of white men, and he actually dreaded this single man who was
now in pursuit of him more than he would have done the whole Blackfoot
nation.

Lash as he would, his pursuer rapidly gained upon him. He stopped his
horse, and placing himself behind Snowdrop, he drew her to him so that
her form covered his breast, and drawing his knife, held it above her
breast, resolved to kill her rather than give her up.

Snowdrop was prepared for the blow, but it never fell. With a howl of
mingled rage and pain, the Sioux sprung from his horse, his arm hanging
limp and useless at his side, and darted into the bushes, where it was
impossible for any one to follow him, just as the scout rode up.

Snowdrop, when she discovered that she had merely changed captors, was
at first inclined to be angry, but when Kelly drew his knife and cut
the thongs which bound her hands, at the same time saying that she was
free, she replied:

"Snowdrop can not thank the pale-face, but he has saved her life, and
now she is his."

"Gracious! I don't want you!" replied the scout. "Now you hold my horse
until I find that red-skin and get his scalp, then I will take you to
your father."

But he was unsuccessful. The Sioux had taken care to hide his trail,
and the scout soon returned, and mounting his horse, led the way back
to camp.

Neither spoke, but Snowdrop thought, "What a handsome man he is," and
for the first time in her life she was in love. She had yet to learn
that it takes two to make a bargain, though she resolved to win the
love of the brave scout, or die.

When they reached the camp where Kelly had left the old chief, they
found him sitting beside the fire, endeavoring to tie a cloth around
his broken leg. An expression of pleasure lit up his swarthy face as he
saw his daughter unharmed; then, as his eye rested upon the belt of the
scout, Kelly said, as if anticipating his thoughts:

"No; the red devil got away that time. You see, I had to break his arm,
or he would have struck the girl to the heart. But never mind, I will
have his scalp yet; for I never go back on my word with any man, be he
red or white. I brought back his horse for you, and I don't suppose you
are far from your village, so you can go home when you please."

"White Panther is a great brave, but Red Pine has many warriors with
him, and they may come and take Snowdrop from him. The village of Gray
Eagle is only a day's ride from here; will the white brave build a
smoke to call the warriors of Gray Eagle here?"

"Yes," replied Kelly, "and while I am about it, suppose you have
Snowdrop get something to eat. There is plenty here," he said, pointing
to several saddles of venison hanging in the trees near by. Then Kelly
went to build the smokes.

The transparency of the atmosphere in that region is such that objects
can be seen at a great distance; for example, a mountain presents a
distinct and bold outline at fifty or sixty miles, and may occasionally
be seen as far as a hundred miles.

The Indians, availing themselves of this fact, have been in the habit
of practicing a system of telegraphing by means of smokes by day,
and fires by night, and there are but few men who have crossed the
mountains who have not seen these signals made and responded to from
peak to peak, in rapid succession.

The Indians thus make known to their friends many items of information
highly important to them. If enemies or strangers make their appearance
in the country, the fact is telegraphed at once, giving them time to
secure their animals and to prepare for attack, defense or flight.

War or hunting parties, after having been absent a long time from their
friends at home, and not knowing where to find them, make use of the
same preconcerted signals to indicate their presence.

Very dense smokes may be raised by kindling a large fire with dry wood,
and piling upon it the green boughs of pine, balsam, or hemlock. This
throws off a heavy cloud of black smoke which can be seen very far.

Kelly proceeded to the top of the bluff where we first met him, and
soon three long, white columns of smoke were rising heavenward. This
done, he returned to his camp, and found dinner awaiting him.

Snowdrop presented him a nicely broiled steak upon a clean bark plate,
and was well repaid for her trouble by the smile he gave her, and
complimented her upon her skill in cookery.

After dinner Kelly set the broken limbs as well as was possible with
the appliances at hand. When completed, he said:

"Will Gray Eagle remain with me until morning? Then I will start on the
trail of the Sioux."

"Why does my white brother stop here?"

"I'm waiting for my partner, who went to visit a big hill over to the
north-east. He was going to stay until morning, but that smoke will
bring him as soon as he sees it; anyhow, I won't go without him!"

"It is right for White Panther to be true to his brother, but the Sioux
will be upon our trail before morning."

"Well, let them come. If they do, you can make a big addition to your
stock of scalps."

Suddenly the sound of footsteps was heard, and in a moment Jehiel
Filkins stood before them.

"Glad you are back, for we have got some work to do."

"I thought there was something up," he replied, "though I was on my way
back when I see'd your smokes. Then, you just bet, I traveled! But say,
I'm awful hungry! Who is that handsome creetur'?" he asked, as he set
about getting his dinner.

"Oh! she is the daughter of that old cub who lays in there with a
broken leg."

"It strikes me I have seen him somewhere, before, but I never see'd
such a pretty gal as that, any place."

"Well," replied Kelly, "pitch in and make love to her if you want to,
and marry her if you can. I'm sure you need some one to mend your
clothes. But I have not told you yet that we have got to escort them to
their village."

"Yes, we will," said Jehiel, "and lose our scalps for our kindness!"

"We won't do any such thing. I have been making a treaty of peace with
Gray Eagle, and he has promised not to fight the pale-faces any more!"

"Wal, what's an Injun's promise good for?" asked Jehiel.

"You don't know them as well as I do, or you would not ask such a
question!"

"No, I s'pose not--nor you don't know 'em as well as you will a year
from now. But," he continued, "if we are going, let us be on the move.
I will eat as we ride along."

Snowdrop was well pleased when she heard Jehiel speak thus, and smiled
as she said:

"The Long Hunter is brave and good to be the brother of White Panther."

"Much obleeged," said Jehiel, "but he ain't my brother, though he is a
bully boy, and fit to be the brother of a king."

Lifting the wounded chief to his saddle, they started up the valley,
Kelly taking the lead, the chief next, and Snowdrop behind him, while
Jehiel brought up the rear; preferring to be where he could admire the
lovely form of the Indian girl.

"By Gunner!" he muttered, "but _ain't_ she nice! I'll do something
desperate, and marry her or bu'st!"

Truth to tell, Jehiel Filkins was desperately and irrevocably in love,
but he was "counting his chickens" too soon.

In the midst of his reverie he was made aware of a sudden halt, and he
looked up to see what was the matter.




                             CHAPTER III.

                           THE SIOUX STROKE.


When the scout had halted, of course the others stopped and Jehiel
found himself close beside the object of his meditations before he
had fairly recovered from his day-dream. But close ahead he saw a
camp-fire, and the silly lover was at once transformed into the brave
scout.

He rode to the front, and took his stand beside Kelly with his gun
cocked and ready for service.

"White men, and a hard-looking lot they are too!" exclaimed Kelly.

Seated around the camp-fire were a dozen men, who, as soon as they
discovered the party of our friends, sprung to their feet, and stood
ready with their guns.

"Come on," said Kelly, "we may as well be bold about it, for we are too
close to back out now."

The strangers stepped out in front of their camp, and waited for the
scout to approach.

He had seen too many of that class of men before on the plains and
in the mountains, not to know that he had come across a gang of road
agents, through he was at a loss to imagine what they could be after,
in that section.

He knew that these outlaws were frequently in league with the Indians,
and he did not know but this party were in some way connected with the
Sioux, from whom he was endeavoring to escape.

The leader of the party of whites was the only good-looking one in the
crowd; the rest wearing a hang-dog, ruffianly look, as if they had been
life-long murderers. The leader saluted Kelly with:

"Hello, stranger, which way are you going?"

"North," replied Kelly, "as you can see, if you use your eyes!"

"Yes, I see; but what are you going for?"

"It is not evident to my mind that it is any of your business where we
are going," replied the scout. "I don't mind telling you, however, that
we are bound for the village of the Blackfeet."

"What may I call your name? It strikes me I have seen you somewhere
before to-day."

"You may call me Robinson Crusoe, if it will do you any good, though
that isn't my name; and it is barely possible you have seen me
somewhere, for I have been there several times."

"Where?"

"I told you _somewhere_!"

"Well, where are you from?" asked the stranger.

"Home!" replied Kelly.

The stranger laughed and said:

"I am not likely to get much information out of you! I believe there
are some men in this western country who dare not tell their names."

"You do, eh? Well, I am not one of them," replied Kelly.

"Who said you was?"

Kelly made no reply, but turning to his party, said: "Come on," and was
about to start when the stranger again accosted him with--"Won't you
stop and camp with us?"

The scout noticed the looks which the ruffians bestowed upon the Indian
girl, and did not like them, and he replied:

"No, I thank you. We have plenty of provisions, and will make our camp
a few rods away."

"All right," said the leader, "I will come over and make you a visit
after supper."

Kelly rode on about eighty rods, and halted beside a stream, saying, as
he dismounted:

"We will camp here. But," he added, "you can all make up your minds to
leave here before daylight."

"Heap good!" said Gray Eagle. "White Panther knows what is best, and
Gray Eagle trusts his life with him. White Panther has said he would
take him to his village."

"Yes," replied Kelly, "and I will do it; you need not worry any more."

The wounded chief was taken from his horse and laid upon the soft
grass, and while Kelly went to find a good place in which to secure the
horses, Snowdrop set about getting the supper. In this occupation she
was assisted by Jehiel, who, as we have said, was desperately in love
with the beautiful squaw.

Shortly after Kelly had returned to the fire, the leader of the other
party came into their camp, and entered into conversation with him.

"You were not brought up on the plains, though you seem to be an old
hand at camp-life," he said.

"How do you know that?" asked Kelly.

"Because you do not look like a plainsman or a common trapper, neither
do you use such language as is common with that class."

"I see," laughingly replied Kelly. "You think if a kitten is born
in an oven it must surely be a loaf of bread! But you are mistaken.
I have spent my life, or all of it that I can remember, west of the
Mississippi; and I never went to school a day in my life. Manners and
language are like the small pox, contagious; and if I have caught more
than most men in my calling, it is my good luck, not education."

"Well, will you tell me your name now?"

"I don't know of any reason why I should not, as I never done any thing
to disgrace it. It is Kelly; my friends call me Lew, for short--"

"What! Lew Kelly, the famous scout? Your name is well known all along
the frontier, and I am glad to meet you, though I must confess I am
somewhat disappointed."

"In what respect?" asked Kelly.

"Why I expected to see a great burly fellow, who could whip his weight
in wild-cats, but you are not much older than I am; nor much, if any,
larger."

"A gentle hint that you think you can whip me," said Kelly.

"No, sir, nothing of the kind; and I hope I may never have any occasion
to try it."

"You will be liable to get the worth of your money if you do," replied
the scout. "But will you tell me your name?"

"You may call me Curtiss, if you please--those fellows over there call
me Captain."

"Well, Captain Curtiss, it is none of my business, perhaps, what you
do, or what becomes of you, who you are, or where you are going; but I
shall not be doing my duty unless I tell you that you are liable to get
into a pretty lively muss before morning."

"What makes you think so?" asked Curtiss.

"I have every reason to believe that a large body of Sioux are on our
trail, under Red Pine, the fellow from whom I rescued this girl. If
they do not try to recapture her, then I am no judge of Indian nature."

"I am much obliged to you," said Curtiss. "I will be ready for them, if
they come. And now, good-night."

After he had gone, Jehiel sat beside Kelly and talked for nearly an
hour. It was arranged between them that they would remain on guard, and
Jehiel said:

"Come now, Lew, you turn in and sleep till midnight, and I will take
the first trick at watching."

"Wait a few minutes," replied Kelly; "I want to see how they are fixed
over there;" and he proceeded to inspect the camp of the strangers.

He soon returned, and to the inquiry of Jehiel, he said:

"The fools have all gone to sleep, and left a big fire over there. If
the Sioux should come, they will get the first slice, that's sure."
He gave the fire a kick, and rolling himself in his blanket was soon
asleep.

The camp-fire of the strangers had burned low and no unnatural sounds
could be heard, when Jehiel awoke the scout to take his place.

"You should have called me before, Jehiel, you will not get much sleep,
I am afraid."

"Who keers a durn? I'll be ready when you are!" and Jehiel sought his
blankets and sleep.

Kelly began his watch, keeping in the shade of the bushes, and for
nearly an hour he heard no unusual noise. Then the breaking of a twig
between himself and the camp-fire of the strangers alarmed him, and
he crouched down to the ground the better to watch the movements of
whatever was prowling around.

The object was moving as stealthily as a cat, and Kelly could not
discover it until it passed an open spot where the fire light reflected
upon it, when he made the somewhat alarming discovery of a Sioux
warrior; and he had barely time to notice that he was in his war-paint.

The question arose, what should he do? The problem was solved by the
Indian himself, who was now coming straight toward the tree behind
which the scout was concealed.

Nearer and nearer he came, until the brave scout could hear him
breathe, and as he passed the tree could have touched him.

The Indian halted to listen, and apparently satisfied, started on.
He had taken but one step when the scout sprung upon him, and with a
single blow of the keen-pointed knife the Indian sunk to the ground
without a groan.

It was but the work of a moment for the scout to secure the horses, and
lead them to the camp.

Here he gave Jehiel a kick which brought that worthy to his feet with
"Durn yer pictur'," when he was interrupted by Kelly placing his hand
over his mouth, and saying:

"Keep still, and saddle the horses; the Indians are here."

Then he silently awoke the chief and said, "Let us go." Gray Eagle and
Snowdrop were soon ready for a start.

"Here, Jehiel, you take the chief and the girl and go on down the
creek; I will join you in a few minutes."

"Where are you going?" asked Jehiel.

"I am going to tell the strangers to be on their guard," and the brave
man, unmindful of his own peril, mounted his horse and started for the
camp of the strangers; while Jehiel, and the chief and his daughter,
went down the stream.

Kelly had got about half-way to the other camp when a dark figure
sprung from the bushes in front of him, and struck at the head of the
scout.

He missed his mark, but not so Kelly, who reached out and dealt the
Indian a blow between the eyes which brought him to the ground.

Spurring over the prostrate body he drove into the camp of the
strangers, shouting as he went:

"Up, men, for your lives! The Sioux are here!"

A hundred dusky forms sprung up as if by magic, and the air was filled
with murderous yells. Drawing his revolver he shot right and left, an
Indian falling with every shot.

The first thought of the brave scout was to join his party as soon
as possible, but his afterthought was worthy of him. He knew that to
insure the safety of Jehiel, Gray Eagle, and Snowdrop, he must go in
an opposite direction, and thus lead the Sioux in pursuit of himself
rather than his friends.

The impulse was a brave and noble one, well worthy of the scout, and he
turned his horse, resolving to trust to his speed.

A row of angry, painted faces met him, but he charged through their
ranks, shooting two Indians as he went.

Then he became aware that another horse was close beside his, and
turning in his saddle he beheld Snowdrop, who had followed him, and was
now close by his side.

"Come on, girl. Ride for your life!" he shouted, "and keep close to me."

He turned his horse in the direction of the stream, and in a few
minutes both horses were dashing through the water, and up the opposite
bank. The scout never paused except to see that the Indian girl was
safe across, and having satisfied himself on that score he dashed ahead.

Meanwhile the camp of the strangers was the scene of a bloody conflict.
The white men were battling desperately for their lives, but they had
been surprised, and the scout knew from the rapid and incessant firing,
that the battle could not last long.

He halted and listened to the noise of the conflict upon the opposite
side of the stream. All at once it ceased, and as he was wondering
which party had met with success, there came to his ears a wild,
prolonged shout, which was answered by a single yell of defiance.

"That sounds as if them white men had passed in their checks, and the
Sioux had won the battle." He looked at Snowdrop as he spoke, and her
eyes were looking sorrowfully in his own, as she said:

"My father is a prisoner. He has tried to follow me and the Sioux have
found him. Now he must burn."

"I guess not," replied the scout; "but why didn't you stay with him and
Jehiel?"

"Snowdrop had rather _die_ with the White Panther, whom she loves, than
_live_ with any one else!"

"Well, you are a queer one, though, when I told you I did not want you.
I have one wife already, and that is all the law allows a white man.
But, I'll tell you, Snowdrop, there's Jehiel is in love with you head
over heels, and he will take you if you'll only give him half a chance."

"The White Panther saved my life, and I will never cook meat for any
other man!"

"Oh, fudge! You'll get over that before long."

"Never. What will Snowdrop do now they have taken her father, and will
burn him?"

"Keep cool, little gal! They have not burned him yet, and I have
promised Gray Eagle that I would give him the scalp of Red Pine, and
I'd do it. They have probably got Jehiel too; and now, girl, it's
about daylight, and I want you to ride as fast as you can to the
village of your people, and bring back all the warriors you can get.
I will stay here and wait for you, and when you get back we will give
them Sioux particular fits!"

Without a word the Indian girl obeyed, and was soon lost to the sight
of the scout.




                              CHAPTER IV.

                          THE YANKEE'S QUEST.


After the Indian girl had departed on her mission, Kelly rode his
horse into a thicket of willows beside the stream, and tied him. The
scout then ascended the hill and looked in the direction of the late
battle-field, but it was not yet light enough for him to discern any
thing.

A tall, bushy oak stood near.

"Just the thing," said the scout. "I'll climb this tree, and then
perhaps I can see what they are about. They are too quiet to suit my
idea, and I shouldn't wonder but they are up to some new deviltry. Of
course they have not found Snowdrop, and as that is about all they are
after they will not give up the search. Then they'll be tramping around
on my trail. But let them come; they will not find the Indian girl, for
she is a good piece toward home by this time."

The scout was now among the branches of the trees, from which he could
get a good view of the surrounding country, and there, for a short
time, we will leave him and take a look at the camp of the victorious
Sioux.

Upon the ground sat Gray Eagle, Curtiss, and Jehiel Filkins, while in
front of them stood Red Pine, the Sioux chief.

"Ugh!" he said, addressing Gray Eagle, "Red Pine has got you at last;
and now as soon as he gets Snowdrop he will start for home!"

"Red Pine will never get her. She is far toward the village of the
Blackfeet, with the White Panther, and will bring enough of the
warriors of Gray Eagle upon the trail of the cowardly Sioux that will
sweep them from the face of the earth!"

"Waugh! Gray Eagle talks brave! He forgets that he is the prisoner of
Red Pine."

"No, Gray Eagle does not forget. He is ready to die; he does not care
as long as his daughter is safe."

"Before the sun goes down Snowdrop will be a prisoner like her father.
Sioux warriors are on her trail, and she rides alone. The pale-face has
left her to take care of herself, and she shall yet sit in the lodge of
Red Pine!"

"Then let me die!" said Gray Eagle.

"No. The Blackfoot shall go to the village of the Sioux, and when he
sees Snowdrop the slave of Red Pine then he shall die by torture!"

Then addressing Captain Curtiss, he said:

"What does the pale-face want here?"

"We were just traveling through the country on our way to Oregon,"
replied the captain.

"Do you know Gray Eagle, the Blackfoot?"

"No; I never saw him until last night."

"And the pale-face who went with the Blackfoot squaw?"

"I do not know him. I have nothing to do with either."

"Red Pine will keep the pale-face, but he shall die with the Blackfoot
dog!"

Then to Jehiel:

"This other pale-face squaw--what right has he here, and what does he
want?"

"None of yer business, you darned fool! Now what are you goin' to do
about it?"

"Red Pine will make you cry before long!"

"No you won't, you old sucker; you can't do that little thing," replied
the scout.

"We will see. When the sun shows its face above the trees, the
pale-face shall die by fire."

"The sooner the better, old stoughton bottle. It's a chilly night, and
a little fire will do a fellow good."

"Red Pine says you shall _die_!"

"Yaas, I heerd you, you dirty squaw thief, but you Sioux will lie so
that a feller can't depend on what you say. If you should accidentally
be telling the truth, it will be better to die than live around where
you are!"

"Pale-face talks brave now; we will hear him cry when he eats fire!"

"Oh, shut up, you maw-mouthed imp, and go on with your concert!"

The Sioux chief took Jehiel at his word, and ordered the prisoner to be
bound to the stake, and almost before Jehiel knew what he was about,
the brush and dry wood were piled nearly to his chin.

When this was accomplished the chief said to him:

"When the sun shows his face above the trees, let the pale-face squaw
burn!" and the scout sung:

    "Walk along, John, don't stay long,
    Hurry right home to your own chickabiddy--"

and calmly awaited the torture.

And that was what Kelly saw from his perch in the tree, upon the
opposite bank of the stream.

"_That_ will never do!" he exclaimed; "I must hurry up, or they will
roast Jehiel, in spite of fate."

Descending the tree he mounted his horse and started for the scene of
torture.

It was well for him, perhaps, that the Sioux were so busy preparing for
the torture and therefore did not see him approaching.

He was within a few rods, when a warrior was seen approaching, with a
blazing firebrand, and stood awaiting the order of the chief to fire
the pile.

Soon the order came, and just as he was about to apply the brand, the
report of a rifle was heard, his arm fell at his side, and with a cry
of rage and pain he ran beyond the circle of warriors.

The Sioux stood in mute astonishment at the turn of affairs, and at
that instant Kelly dashed through the line and to the prisoner, and
without dismounting, cut the thongs which bound Jehiel to the stake.

"Jump up here, behind me," he shouted, and before the Sioux had
recovered from their surprise, they had reached the bottom of the hill
and were dashing at top speed down the valley.

As would naturally be expected, the Sioux started in pursuit, but their
ponies were no match for the powerful black of the scout, and they were
soon left far behind.

"Gunner! Lew, but you happened around just in time, didn't you? Them
yer fellers was goin' to heat up my carkiss!" were the first words
spoken.

"How did you fall into their hands?" asked Kelly.

"W'y, you see, when old Gray Eagle found out that his gal wasn't along,
he jest turns his hoss's tail like an old fool, and cuts after her!
Say, Lew, where is the little angel gone to?"

"Home," replied the scout.

"Hold on a minute!" exclaimed Jehiel; "my horse is in here somewhere.
Wait until I find him, then we can go the faster."

Dismounting, he soon found the horse and again they started on down the
valley.

"We must go a little slow," said Kelly, "or the Sioux will give up the
chase."

"Don't you want them to?" demanded Jehiel, in some surprise.

"No, I don't; at least, not until I get a shot at some of them."

"Cor-reck!" responded Jehiel. "I didn't think of that. Let's find a
good place, and stop until they come up."

A few rods ahead they found a pile of rocks, and secreting themselves
and their horses behind these, they awaited the approach of the
pursuing party.

These soon appeared, tearing down the valley totally unconscious of
danger, and when within a few rods of the ambuscade, Kelly whispered to
Jehiel:

"You take the leader, and I will take that fellow in the rear; that
will stop them. Then, before they get over wondering, we can pick off
the rest."

There were but five of the enemy to be seen, and as the two scouts
discharged their repeating rifles, the leader and rear man fell.

The other three were too astonished to move, and soon fell victims to
the skill of the scouts.

"There!" said Kelly, "I guess there are no more after us, and we might
as well go back."

"Go back!" exclaimed Jehiel. "What in the Old Scratch do you want to go
back for?"

"To release Gray Eagle, and get the scalp of that dusky nigger, Red
Pine!"

"Why, Lew Kelly, are you crazy? If you want scalps there's five of 'em
out there; though I can't see what in thunder you want with the dirty
things!"

"I believe I told you I had promised Gray Eagle I would get the Sioux
chief's scalp for him, and I'm going to do it, or lose my own."

"Cor-reck! You ain't in such a hurry to get home as you was, are you,
Lew?"

"Yes, I am just as anxious as ever, but I have pledged my word, and you
know I never lie. More than that, I consider that if we can secure the
friendship of the Blackfeet at so small a cost, I shall be doing the
country a good service. So I shall make a desperate effort to get the
scalp of the Sioux chief, and--perhaps lose my own in trying."

"Wal, wherever you go, you can depend on yours truly, Jehiel Filkins!"

"Thank you. But I want you to go the other way," replied the scout.

"Which other way?"

"I want you to find the trail of Snowdrop, and follow it until you find
her. I more than half suspect that Red Pine started some of his fellows
on _her_ trail when he found she was not with you, and they may have
overtaken her."

"Where did you say she had gone?" asked Jehiel.

"Home. I sent her after some Blackfoot warriors, because I thought
the Sioux would be after us before we could reach the village of Gray
Eagle; and you see I guessed right.

"What made you think so?"

"Because she is what he came for, and he will use every effort to get
her."

"Wal, I'll go. But, Lew, I'd jest like to ax you one question. Is
Snowdrop in love with you?"

"Yes," replied Kelly, "at least she said she was, and that was the
reason she came back after you got started last night."

"Then my bread is all dough," said Jehiel; "but I'll go all the same,
seein' as how you asked me to."

"What makes you say your bread is all dough?" asked Kelly.

"Cause you said she was in love with you."

"That does not make any difference," replied the scout. "I am not in
love with her, by a long shot, and what is more I am not liable to be,
while I have such a good little wife of my own living."

"Does she know you are married?"

"She ought to," replied Kelly, "for I have told her once or twice."

"Wal, I'll go, as I said afore; but, Lew, do you s'pose there is any
airthly chance for me?"

"I don't know, I am sure," replied Kelly; "but you can try, and I will
do all I can to help you. Remember, faint heart never won fair lady.
And now, hurry up and get started, for Snowdrop may even now be in the
hands of the Sioux."

"Where'll I find you when I get back?"

"I don't know, Jehiel; I shall stay around here and keep watch for the
Sioux, for I am certain they are waiting to get Snowdrop before they go
home."

"What makes you so sartin?" asked Jehiel.

"In the first place, this is Blackfoot country, and not Sioux, and we
are not more than thirty miles from the village of the Gray Eagle. In
the next place, Red Pine would have burned Gray Eagle before this, if
he thought he could not get Snowdrop. If I am not here, you will find a
letter in this clump of willows that will tell you where I am gone."

"Wal, take good keer of yourself, and I will find the gal if I kin!"

So saying, Jehiel started upon his errand, while the scout prepared to
dog the Sioux.




                              CHAPTER V.

                           TRAILING A TRAIL.


Snowdrop, after she had left the scout, was obliged to ride very slowly
until she was over the rough hills, but after she had reached the open
prairie she increased the speed of her horse.

She was a fearless rider, but the long, treeless plain which lay
stretched out before her wore a dreary aspect, well calculated to
discourage her.

But her mission was one of life or death to her, and she undertook the
task.

The sun was just rising as she entered the plains, and putting her
tough pony to the run, she dashed ahead. She was doing all this for
what? Not for herself, for she would have preferred to remain with the
scout; nor yet for her father, for she did not think Red Pine would
spare him so long; but she was going just because the man she loved had
asked her to go!

Onward the brave girl urged her horse until the sun was nearly
overhead, still no signs of the Sioux. She paused a moment to allow her
horse a breathing-spell, and while resting she discovered a party of
horsemen on her trail, and though they were a long ways off, she knew
by the way in which they rode that they had a definite object, and that
that object was herself.

She was convinced that a long and tiresome race was before her; and,
having been reared to a life of peril and strategy, she allowed her
horse a long rest, that he might the better stand the race.

She displayed her good sense by removing the saddle from the horse, and
now, armed only with a small rifle, she sprung upon his back and put
him to his best speed.

On the brave girl rode--on, over the treeless and trackless waste, and
only at long intervals did a roll in the prairie obstruct her view of
her pursuers. At length she came to a small stream running at right
angles with the path she was pursuing, and here she paused again to
allow her horse to drink.

The advancing party, whoever they were, gained rapidly upon her, until
she could now count their number. There were twenty of them, all well
mounted, and by the manner in which they rode, she was no longer in
doubt as to their object.

Far ahead she saw a long, dark line of timber, just beyond which, she
knew, was the village of her people, and she thought if she could only
gain that, she would be safe; and she resolved to gain the shelter of
the forest, or die in the attempt.

Slowly but surely her pursuers gained upon her, and she could now hear
their yells. The sound maddened her, and the very thought of failure
made her heart sick; but she lashed her horse to renewed and desperate
efforts.

Her horse, too, seemed to partake of the same fear and feelings as his
mistress. A few rods more and she will be among the trees where she
trusted she could elude her pursuers.

Vain hope! Just as the goal is won her horse falls, and the blood
flowing from his dilated nostrils shows that he has ruptured a
blood-vessel. A shrill yell of triumph comes from her pursuers, yet
standing firm beside her dead horse, the brave Indian girl brings her
rifle to bear upon them.

Never did a stricken buck turn more fiercely at bay upon the dogs on
its track, than did Snowdrop when she found that she could not escape.

With Spartan firmness she held the short rifle, and when she thought
they were near enough, pulled the trigger, and the foremost Indian fell
from his saddle. She had not time to reload her rifle, but clubbing it,
she awaited the approach of the Sioux.

Short time was given her for thought, and she was almost immediately
surrounded and overpowered, but not until a brawny warrior had been
made to bite the dust at her feet.

She was lifted to the saddle made vacant by her shot, and the young
brave who seemed to be the leader took her bridle-rein, and they turned
to retrace their way across the prairie.

"Do you speak the language of the pale-faces?" asked the warrior.

"Yes," answered Snowdrop.

"Then tell me who you are, and what tribe you belong to."

"I am called Snowdrop, and my father is Gray Eagle, the great chief of
the Blackfeet."

"The White Wolf of the Pawnees has heard of Snowdrop before," he said.

"Are you White Wolf?" she asked.

"So I am called by both red men and white!" he replied.

"I have heard that White Wolf was a brave chief. If it is true, he will
not make war on a woman!"

"No. Snowdrop need not fear! White Wolf already loves her and will make
her his wife, for she is more beautiful than any woman of the Pawnee
tribe!"

"But Snowdrop loves another, and can not go to the lodge of White Wolf,
though he is a great brave and all the tribes fear him."

"White Wolf is in no hurry, and Snowdrop will learn to love him. We
will wait till we get to the village of the Pawnees, and then when
White Wolf asks her to be his wife she will say yes!"

"No, she will not; but if White Wolf loves Snowdrop, as he says he
does, then let him go and rescue her father from the hands of the
Sioux, for if he should die, then Snowdrop will die, too!"

"White Wolf will rescue Gray Eagle. Will Snowdrop tell him where her
father is?"

"In the forest beyond the big hills which I left when the sun rose."

"White Wolf will go there, and he will take Gray Eagle from the
cowardly Sioux, and when Snowdrop sees her father safe, then she will
consent to be the wife of the Pawnee chief."

Snowdrop did not promise that she would, neither did she say that she
would not; nor yet did she dare to tell him that the two scouts were
doing what he was trying to do.

She acted wisely and kept silence, which White Wolf construed in his
favor, and he said:

"We will go to our camp to the south, where I have a good place to
leave Snowdrop in safety, then White Wolf will go on the trail of the
Sioux. He will find them, and will bring the father of Snowdrop away
with him!"

"Let Snowdrop ride back with the Pawnee braves," she said.

"No," replied White Wolf; "the Pawnees will ride fast, and Snowdrop is
too tired. She must go to the camp of White Wolf, and stay until he
brings her father to her."

Snowdrop did not repeat her request, for she knew that it would do no
good, and that it would be a mere waste of words for her to do so. She
bowed her head in submission, and soon saw all but two of the Pawnees
start toward the west. The remaining two placed themselves upon each
side of her horse, and one of them taking her bridle-rein, they started
for the south.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Jehiel took the trail of Snowdrop it was without much hope of
overtaking her, for he knew that the brave girl would ride fast when
she knew there was so much at stake, and she had a long ways the start
of him.

But he was better mounted than she, and had no difficulty in finding
and following her trail, and before noon he had her in sight.

He saw the party of horsemen come from the south and start in pursuit
of her, and by the aid of a powerful field-glass he saw her capture and
the manner in which she was disposed of, though he could not tell what
tribe had done it.

He saw when the party of which Snowdrop was one, left the main body and
started south, and he also saw the main body riding swiftly over the
back track.

He turned his horse to the right, and when the larger party had arrived
at the place where he left the trail, he was but a few miles away, and
it was with a grunt of satisfaction that he saw them pass on and ride
away toward the hills where he had left the scout.

Jehiel waited very patiently until they had passed out of sight, then
he found the trail of the party who had charge of Snowdrop, and he
started after her.

"Them fellers what has my gal will be mighty apt to meet with an
adventure afore mornin', or my name ain't Jehiel Filkins. Gosh! but I
wish I had the sweet critter in my arms this minnit! Wonder what Jemima
Brown will say when she hears I am married to jest the prettiest little
girl in America? Sartain, I hain't axed her yet, but I don't reckon she
would refuse such a good-looking fellow as me."

He was thus soliloquizing as he reached the woods, and here he stopped.
Finding a good place for his horse, he resumed his way on foot.

It was now nearly dark, and he was obliged to proceed cautiously,
imagining that the Indians might have seen him following after them.

Leaving the beaten trail he carefully worked his way through the
bushes, pausing occasionally to listen. No sound of falling hoofs was
to be heard, and he again crept on.

Proceeding in this manner for about half a mile he discovered the
glimmer of a camp-fire between the trees.

In the small opening three tired horses were leisurely feeding, while
the Indians were busily engaged in building a fire and preparing their
supper.

Snowdrop was sitting behind a tree with her hands and feet securely
bound, and an expression of deep anxiety upon her face.

As Jehiel gazed at the group, he thought how easy it would be to shoot
the two Indians, but he was not one to shed blood unnecessarily, and he
determined to wait. He must contrive some way to let the girl know of
his presence, but the question of how was a hard one to solve.

The trees surrounding the little camp were large, and the space open,
so that he could advance no nearer without betraying his presence.

He solved the problem in his own quaint way. Depositing his rifle at
the foot of the tree beside which he stood, he began to climb the tree.
Once among the branches, the foliage of which he found dense enough for
his purpose, he had no difficulty in making his way to the next nearest
tree.

Creeping along the branches as stealthily as a panther, he passed from
one tree to another until he found himself at the side of the opening,
and directly opposite the tree near which Snowdrop was seated.

He was in imminent danger of being discovered, but with an intrepidity
peculiar to the brave scout, he set about arranging his plans for the
future.




                              CHAPTER VI.

                     THE OLD MAN OF THE MOUNTAIN.


When Kelly was left alone after Jehiel had started in pursuit of
Snowdrop, he dismounted from his horse, and at a signal from him the
sagacious animal lay down upon the ground, and Kelly proceeded to take
his rest.

With his rifle beside him, his head pillowed upon the neck of the noble
brute, he was soon in the realm of dreams. His sleep was long and deep,
for the scout was very tired, and he did not awake until long after
dark. Then the uneasy actions of his horse aroused him, and the motion
of his ears, when the scout partially raised up, showed that he had
heard some suspicious sounds; and Kelly felt confident that whatever
the danger was it was very near, for the animal lay quite still, with
his ears pointed forward in the attitude of intense apprehension.

The scout silently drew back the hammer of his rifle, and felt in his
belt to see that his knife and revolvers were in their accustomed place.

Silence reigned for a few minutes, as deep as though no living thing
was within miles of there.

Then Kelly heard some peculiar sounds--very slight at first, but plain
and distinct. He recognized the sounds as being produced by the feet
of human beings, and he knew that at least two persons were coming
directly toward his hiding-place.

The scout did not move, neither did the noble black horse beside him.
Both seemed instinctively to know that Indians were about, and the
scout thought it more than probable that it was a part of the Sioux
band who were trying to find him and Jehiel.

He kept still also because he thought that by so doing the Indians
might pass by without noticing him.

The sound of falling footsteps came nearer and nearer, and the brave
scout could see that they were moving with great caution. And they were
coming straight toward him, and so close were they that Kelly imagined
they might hear the beating of his heart.

His rifle was already cocked, and he now brought it to his shoulder,
resolving to use it should his presence be discovered or necessity
require.

"Listen," said a strange voice in unmistakable English, "I thought
I heard something!" and another voice responded--"Yes, I heard the
breaking of a twig;" and Kelly recognized the last as the voice of a
woman.

"I wonder if it can be Jehiel and Snowdrop?" he soliloquized, but he
could not tell whether the woman was white or red.

Whoever it was they kept perfectly still, evidently listening for
a repetition of the sounds; and although the silence was of only a
minute's duration it seemed an hour to the scout.

Again he heard them moving along, and they were now within a few feet
of him, when Kelly, in a low, firm voice, said: "Halt!" As the steps
ceased he continued--"Who comes there?"

"A white man, and an enemy to none but Indians!" was the reply.

Kelly recognized the voice of the speaker, and exclaimed:

"Gracious! is that you, Curtiss? Come on--but who have you got there?"

"I do not know what her name is, or where she came from; but I do know
that she has done a good job for me, that I will not soon forget. She
crept to my side about an hour ago, and cut the thongs with which I was
bound to a tree, and probably saved me from getting roasted."

Then the scout looked at her as well as he could in the dim light, but
she did not speak.

"She is no Blackfoot," he said, "and she is too good looking for a
Sioux. Tell you what it is, Curtiss, I believe she is a white girl! How
is it, girl, can you speak the language of the pale-faces?"

"Yes," replied a low, sweet voice, "I am Nu-le-la, the sister of Red
Pine, the Sioux chief."

"The dickens, you are! Well, Curtiss, you and I are in luck, no matter
who the young lady is. But, if she is a Sioux we will have to keep
her close, or she will betray us to her brother. There will be a loud
rumpus when they find out you are gone."

"Just listen! They have found it out already," said the Indian girl.
"Let us leave here, for Red Pine will have a hundred braves upon our
path as soon as the light comes, and he can be cruel when he chooses!"
Loud yells could now be heard far down in the valley.

"Did you conceal your trail when you came here?" the scout asked of
Curtiss.

"No," he replied, "we came as fast as we could, and had but one
thought--that was to get away as fast as possible."

"Then they will have no trouble in following your trail when daylight
comes, so the best thing we can do is to get out of here as soon as
possible. I found a cave one day when I was out hunting, and not far
from here. If I can only find it again, we will be all right. We have
a few hours the start of them, so I guess we can find shelter before
they can find us. Come on, now, and be sure and keep in a line directly
behind me," said Kelly, as he entered the stream leading his horse.
"And another thing," he continued, "you must be careful and not break
any of the bushes along the bank, nor leave a footprint in the sand!"

And leading his pet horse he led the way up the stream.

When the stream became too narrow for the scout and his horse to walk
abreast, he led the way, the faithful black following him, and Curtiss
with the Sioux maiden bringing up the rear.

The current of the stream was swift, and whatever footprints were made
were quickly washed full of sand and stones; and half an hour after no
trace could be found in the bed of the stream, of those who so recently
had passed through. They could hear the angry yells of the Sioux far
down the valley, and they pressed on without halting.

The stream now came through a narrow defile with huge rocks towering
perpendicularly upon either side; then having gone a few rods further,
the scout halted.

"This looks very much like a trap!" said Curtiss.

"Well, yes," replied the scout. "It would be a trap if the Sioux only
knew we were here. But they don't know it and this is not the place I
proposed for us to roost in. Follow me a little longer." So saying, he
led the way a few feet further, then turning abruptly to the right,
disappeared in what seemed to Curtiss to be solid rock.

Presently the voice of the scout was heard:

"Why don't you come in? 'Walk into my parlor, said the spider to the
fly,'" he sung, as Curtiss and the Indian girl entered the fissure in
the rocks through which the brave scout had disappeared with his horse.

They found themselves within a large cave, thirty or forty feet in
length, and perhaps half that distance in width. The floor was as
smooth as could be wished for, while the room was high enough for all
purposes.

"How do you like this?" asked Kelly. "Here is room enough and to spare,
and no one can find the entrance unless they come up the stream as we
did; and even if they should, we could defend ourselves against the
whole Sioux nation!" He at once led his horse to the further end of the
cave, and returned to the opening.

It was now daylight, and he took the opportunity to have another look
at the Indian girl.

"Great Cæsar! But you are pretty," he said, as his eyes met those of
the maiden.

"If this pale-face will only think so," she replied, pointing to
Curtiss, "I shall be very happy!"

"Well, if he don't make you happy, I shall be tempted to punish him in
some way!" said the scout.

"No, not that," answered the girl. "I saved him from torture, and now
he is mine--yes, all mine forever!" said the impulsive girl, and she
threw her arms round the white man's neck.

"There is no doubt but what the girl is in love," said the scout to
himself, "and, as matters stand just now, I don't know but what it is
the best thing that could happen for me, and it certainly is for him."
Then he added, aloud--"If you and Nulela will remain here with old Pet,
I will climb to the top of this rock and see if I can discover what the
Sioux are about."

"All right," replied Curtiss--"we will wait here for you. But do not
expose yourself unnecessarily, Kelly."

"I am not in the habit of doing that," answered the scout, "but let me
advise you to keep on good terms with the girl. The more you can talk
love to her, the better it will be for us, because if you make her
angry she would not stop short of putting you again in the hands of her
brother."

Proceeding down the stream a short distance, the scout came to a place
where he could climb to the top of the rock.

Arriving there, he hurried to the end overlooking the valley, whence he
could get a good view of the plains and the valley below him.

Away off, as far as the eye could reach, he saw straggling parties
of Indians moving about, as if endeavoring to find the trail of the
escaped prisoner.

Some of them were very near the foot of the hill upon which he stood,
but the scout was satisfied that they had not yet found the trail.

There was one thing, however, which seemed somewhat singular to the
scout. He noticed that a large addition had been made to their force.
But it was soon made plain to him.

He saw large parties coming from the north, and knew that they were
not all Sioux who where there, but that the Blackfoot braves had come
to answer the call of Gray Eagle made by the smoke-signals, which the
scout had sent up for the old chief.

"By Jingo!" he muttered, "I wish I could be down there to help one side
or the other; but then, where is the difference? It is only dog eat dog
after all, and they can fight it out without my assistance. Wish I only
knew whether Jehiel is in the scrimmage or not? Reckon not, though, for
he has not had time to go to the Blackfoot village and back. Wonder
where the dickens he is, anyhow?"

But no answer came to any of the scout's queries, and the gnawings of
hunger brought him back to his senses.

In a few minutes a drove of mountain sheep were discovered, slowly
feeding toward him, and drawing his revolver he waited until they were
near enough, and shot one. Shouldering his meat, he retraced his steps
toward the ravine, only pausing once on the way to secure an armful
of dry wood. He then descended to the stream, and once more presented
himself before the group in the cavern.

"All right, here?" he asked, as he entered and deposited his armful of
wood and meat upon the floor.

"Yes; all right!" replied Curtiss. "Did you learn any thing of our
Indian friends, down in the valley?"

"Not much," replied the scout. "They seem to be having lively times
down there, but I don't know as it is any thing that can interest us as
much as a good roast of this mutton will, so I propose that we eat now.
After breakfast I will take another look at them."

While they were yet eating their breakfast they were saluted by a
strange voice, shouting:

"Hello! Who in thunder has tuck possession uv my domicil?"

They all sprung to their feet, and, grasping their weapons, stood ready
to receive the new-comer, whoever he might be.

"Put up yer shooters, yer little nubbins; I won't hurt yer, seein' 'at
yer mostly white," and as they did so the stranger advanced to the fire.

He was, to all appearances, an aged man, as his hair and beard, which
were both long and flowing, were as white as the driven snow; but his
straight, athletic form belied his age.

His dress and arms were such as are usually worn by the mountain
trapper, though he wore one very singular ornament. This was no less
than a necklace, consisting of a double row of bear claws.

This, the reader will understand, if he is conversant with Indian
character, was a badge of distinguished bravery, and one of which any
hunter might well be proud.

The stranger stood before the fire, silently regarding them for
several minutes, then he broke out--"Why don't yer say suthin? Yer a
doggoned purty set, to come inter a feller's house in this way, without
even askin' the owner. Ef I was a leetle better 'quainted I'd take yer
'cross my knee an' spank ther hull caboodle uv yer!"

"I was not aware, sir," said the scout, "that we were intruding on any
man's domain. I accidentally discovered this cave about a week ago, and
made use of it this morning in effecting our escape from a party of
Sioux who were on our trail."

"Sioux? Ther devil! Ther' ain't a Sioux in ther kentry what dare kem' a
nigh here!" exclaimed the stranger.

"But," replied Kelly, "there are Sioux within a very short distance
of here, as you can see for yourself if you will go to the top of the
bluff."

"Wal, yer needn't bother yerselves any further. I've l'arnt 'em to
respect old Bear-Paw, as they calls me; an' now ef yer a mind ter kem
with me, I'll show yer a better place nor this."

He led the way to the further extremity of the cavern, and halted
before the solid wall.

At his feet were a number of small stones, one of which he took in his
hand and struck the wall before him three times.

The astonishment of the scout and his friends can not be imagined as
they saw the rock slowly recede before them and swing noiselessly back.
They followed their leader through the aperture, the huge rock swung
back to its former position, and they discovered a room nearly twice as
large as the one they had just left.

At one side a brisk fire was burning, and over this an old negro woman
was cooking a savory venison ham. Piles of fur were lying around,
indicating that their host was a trapper.

"Here we ar'," said the old man; "an' here I have lived fur nigh onto
ten year. Thar's wood enuf an' pervison enuf ter stan' a ten year
siege, an' now ef ye'll jes' tell me what the trouble ar' an' all about
it then mebby I kin tell yer what ter do."

Thereupon Kelly proceeded to relate all that had transpired up to
this time; and there we must leave them for awhile and look after the
fortunes of others.




                             CHAPTER VII.

                           JEHIEL'S WOOING.


After Jehiel had gained a position to suit him, his first endeavor was
to let Snowdrop know that he was there, and to make her aware of his
intentions.

But the question then arose how this was to be accomplished.

Like nearly all border men, Jehiel could imitate perfectly the beasts
of the field and the birds of the air, and he now resolved to make good
use of the power he possessed to attract her attention.

The whirring sound made by the sudden swoop of the night-hawk fell upon
the air, but no notice was made of it.

He was within short pistol-shot of the Indians; indeed he could smell
the savory steaks as they were broiling upon the coals, and he knew
that a discovery would result in instant death, and the fact affected
him in any thing but a pleasant manner.

Then he chirped like a wren, but no more attention was paid to that
than to the whir of the night-hawk.

This was followed by the dull _too-hoot_ of an owl, and the long,
mocking note of the cat-bird.

They were all too common sounds. Neither the Indians nor Snowdrop paid
the least attention to what they had been accustomed to hear every day
and night of their lives.

Jehiel now gave a good imitation of the crow, and as the ringing _caw,
caw_, sounded through the forest, the Indians merely looked up at the
clouds to see if there were any indications of rain, and proceeded with
their meal.

Jehiel did not despair, even though his efforts thus far had failed to
attract the attention of the Indian maiden.

"Thunder!" he muttered, "where is the use in whistling when she won't
even look up!"

Reaching up among the foliage his hand came in contact with a bunch of
acorns, one of which he pulled off, and parting the leaves in front
of him, he threw the acorn at Snowdrop. It hit her upon the hand, and
startled her from her gloomy reverie. She looked up at the tree above
her head, and not in the direction of the scout, but not seeing any
thing, she concluded that the wind had likely dislodged the acorn, and
again bent her head in contemplation.

Again Jehiel threw an acorn, and again she looked up and around, and at
last her eyes rested upon the opening in the foliage of the huge oak
opposite where she sat. She suppressed the cry of surprise which rose
to her lips, and Jehiel noticed that the Indians did not pause in their
work; so he made the opening larger.

Snowdrop was now looking attentively at him--her form was
motionless--not a feature relaxed, but the glad look in her eyes told
Jehiel that he was at last seen and recognized.

He bent down his head and placed it in the palm of his hand, then put
his fingers on his eyes. This was to signify that he would come and
help her when the Indians were asleep.

She answered him in precisely the same way, then made a quick motion
with her hand toward the two Indians, as if to tell him that she fully
understood him.

Jehiel then held up two fingers of one hand and made an undulating
motion with them, to signify that he had horses, and that they would
ride away after the Indians were asleep; and then drew back to the body
of the tree to watch and wait.

He now endeavored to familiarize himself with the surroundings, so that
he would have no trouble in getting away if he succeeded in releasing
Snowdrop. He did not wish to kill the Pawnees if he could possibly help
it, and thought more of outwitting them, but he had resolved to shoot
them both rather than be defeated in his plans. He knew, too, that
there were no better trailers in the world than the Pawnees.

Snowdrop was as calm and stoical as if she had been at home among her
own people, and gave no sign which might arouse the suspicions of her
guard, and Jehiel felt like cheering her for her bravery.

"Ginger! but she's jest the gayest little squaw on earth, and there
ain't a Yankee gal living could take things as cool as she does. She's
as sweet as they make 'em--_she_ is!"

By this time the Pawnees had finished their cooking, and one of them
brought a large slice of meat to Snowdrop, who immediately commenced
eating.

After she had finished the slice they asked her if she wanted more, to
which she shook her head and placed her fingers upon her eyes, giving
them to understand that she was sleepy. They immediately piled a lot of
blankets near the fire, and untied her ankles, so that she could walk
about and lie down.

It seemed a long time to Jehiel before the Indians became sleepy,
but, after smoking and talking a long time, they gave up, and
rolling themselves in their blankets, were soon asleep. They took
the precaution, however, of tying a strip of leather about one of
Snowdrop's wrists, and to their own, so that she could not move her
hand without disturbing them.

Jehiel remained in the tree until he became satisfied, from the loud
snoring, that the Pawnees were sound asleep; then he descended, and
in a moment had cut the thongs which bound the Indian girl; and then,
taking a large piece of meat from before the fire, they silently
departed. Though Jehiel was very hungry, having fasted for thirty-six
hours, he had no disposition to eat until he had put a safe distance
between him and the Pawnees.

"Come on, little gal, and come jest as still as you can," he whispered.

A gentle pressure of his hand was the only reply, and they went on.

After going several rods, Jehiel halted to decide whether he should
still further insult the Indians by going back and turning their horses
loose, but a few whispered words decided in the negative.

So, closely followed by Snowdrop, he walked along to where he had left
his own horse.

The faithful animal stood where he had been left, and Jehiel led him
out to where he had secreted the horse of Snowdrop, and they were soon
mounted. Then he took the route to the open plain, having decided to
push on with Snowdrop to the village of the Blackfeet.

It was not until they were out of the forest that Jehiel spoke a loud
word, but now he felt that he was out of danger, and he said:

"Little gal, you had a purty hard time on't, didn't you?"

"Yes," replied Snowdrop. "Did White Panther send you after me?"

"Wa-al, he said I could come if I wanted to, and I felt as if my heart
would bu'st if I didn't, so I come."

"The Long Hunter has a good heart to take Snowdrop from the hands of
the Pawnee," said the Indian girl.

"Thunder! was them Pawnees?"

"Yes," answered Snowdrop, "and their chief, White Wolf, said he was
going to keep me for his squaw. But I would have killed him first."

"Bully for you--you are the rummiest little chick in America! Did you
ever--that is--ahem! you didn't love him much, I reckon?"

"No. I love your friend, the White Panther, and will be _his_ wife."

"Lord! that can't be, for White Panther, as you call him, has got a
wife already," said Jehiel.

"I do not care. He is a good hunter and can feed more wives than one."

"But, gal, you don't understand. Us white folks has a law which won't
allow a feller to have more than one wife at a time."

"Then that law is no good," replied Snowdrop. "Suppose there are two
women and only one man--must one woman go without?"

Jehiel was getting a little mixed in his love-making, but he replied:

"In course she must! But just suppose there is one woman and two men,
must one man be without a wife?"

This was a question that Snowdrop was not prepared to answer. But she
said:

"I am not _white_. I love the White Panther and I do not care how many
wives he has got, so long as I am the last one, and he loves me best!"

"You will be disappointed, my gal," was all that Jehiel could say.

Riding a little way further they came to a clump of timber, and here
Jehiel resolved to stop a while and eat the meat which they had brought
with them from the Indian camp.

Accordingly they dismounted, the horses at once went to feeding, and
they proceeded to build a fire and cook the meat. Jehiel had not been
bashful in helping himself to a large piece, and the fact that it
rapidly disappeared after being roasted, was sufficient evidence that
it was good. Besides, they were hungry, as an Indian or a frontiersman
always is.

They had not finished eating, when Jehiel noticed that his horse had
stopped eating, and was looking in the direction from which they had
come.

"There comes them cussed Pawnees, not a mile away," he said. "We must
get out of here, or shed blood."

The next moment they were mounted and speeding away over the plain,
satisfied from the yells of the savages who were in pursuit, that they
had been already discovered. Placing one of his revolvers in the hand
of Snowdrop, he said:

"If we must, we must, I suppose; but I don't want to. You ride on
ahead, and I will stop here and settle their hash for them!"

The Pawnees were within rifle-shot, and were fast gaining upon the
scout and Snowdrop, who would not leave him.

On they came--nearer and still nearer--until, in an instant, Snowdrop
raised her revolver and fired.

"Gosh! gal, you made a hole clean through that critter. Now I'll fix
the other one."

The remaining Pawnee had turned his horse and was leaving as fast as
possible, but he could not outrun the bullet from the rifle of the
scout; so went on a visit to the happy hunting-grounds sooner than he
expected or wished.

Then they turned and again started on, when a sight met them that
caused the scout to halt and exclaim:

"Gewhillakens! Look at that!"

Snowdrop looked in the direction in which he pointed and saw as
many as two hundred painted warriors but a short distance away, all
well-mounted and apparently ready for charge.

Jehiel was in despair, but it was quickly changed to joy by the
exclamation of Snowdrop.

"They are Blackfoot braves! My own people, come to look for me!"

She gave a shrill cry, which instantly changed the hostile attitude of
the savages, and bidding Jehiel ride close to her, and not be afraid,
she rode on to meet the war-party.

The war-party was led by a young warrior, who saluted Snowdrop, and
asked:

"Who is this pale-face, and where do you come from?"

"He is the Long Hunter--the friend of White Panther. I was in the hands
of the Pawnees, and he got me away," replied the girl.

"Where is the chief, Gray Eagle?"

"The Sioux have got him. I was going to the village of my people for
warriors to help White Panther get him away. White Panther stayed to
watch the Sioux, and keep them from burning my father."

"There are enough Blackfeet here to save your father without any help
from an accursed pale-face!" exclaimed the warrior.

Snowdrop made no reply, though the flashing of her eyes betrayed
the fact that the young chief was treading on dangerous ground.
They continued in conversation a few minutes longer, when they were
interrupted by an exclamation from Jehiel.

"Gracious airth! Jest look at that! There come the Sioux! What does it
mean?"

Then Snowdrop observed them, and she saw what the scout did not, that
the approaching party was led by her father.

But where was Lew Kelly?




                             CHAPTER VIII.

                       THE YANKEE ON HIS MUSCLE.


The warriors sent out by Red Pine to capture Snowdrop had not returned
to the Sioux camp, neither had those sent after the brave scout and his
companion, whom he had rescued from torture; and, as might naturally be
expected, the Sioux chief was getting very anxious about them.

He did not dream that every one of both parties were dead, for he had
not been present to see the scout and Jehiel shoot down the five who
went after them, nor did he know that those who had gone in pursuit of
Snowdrop had met the party of Pawnees who had captured her, and had all
been sent on a pilgrimage to the other world.

Had he known this, his anxiety would have been still greater. He seemed
destined to misfortunes and disappointments at every turn, and now a
new disaster had befallen him:

The morning after the rescue of Jehiel he had looked in vain for his
other white prisoner, Curtiss. No one could tell where he had gone.

"Who guarded the pale-face?" he demanded.

"It was I," replied a young brave, as he stepped out before his chief.

Without a word the Sioux chief raised his hatchet, and sunk it to the
eye in the brain of the warrior, who fell dead at his feet.

An old warrior approached him, and said:

"Nulela, the sister of Red Pine, is gone!"

Somehow or other he could not help connecting the sudden disappearance
of his sister with the escape of the white prisoner.

"Did any one see them go?" he asked.

There was no response.

Turning to Gray Eagle, he said:

"Dog of a Blackfoot, do you know any thing of this? Speak quick, before
I kill you!"

"The Sioux is very brave when he can kill a man who is hurt and bound,"
replied Gray Eagle. Then he continued: "I did see the Sioux girl go
away with the pale-face captive."

"Which way did they go?" demanded the Red Pine.

"If the Sioux is a great brave, as he pretends to be, he can find their
trail. Gray Eagle is glad they are gone!"

Red Pine gave up the task of acquiring any information from the
Blackfoot chief, and at once the whole camp were searching for the
fugitives. In a short time they found it and followed it to the creek,
where it was lost.

Unremittingly they searched, up and down on both sides, but could find
no trace after it entered the water, and after searching several hours
were obliged to give it up.

Of course Red Pine was very angry when they returned to camp and
announced their failure.

And now a new danger beset him.

A scout came in with the intelligence that a large party of strange
Indians were approaching. Whether friendly or not, he could not tell.

Red Pine had his warriors all mounted and ready for them, should they
be friends or foes. He stationed a warrior beside the old chief, Gray
Eagle, with instructions to start for the country of the Sioux, should
they be obliged to give battle to the strangers.

The strange Indians were soon in sight, and halted within a hundred
yards. Their leader then rode to the middle of the space, and stopping,
signified to Red Pine that he wanted to talk with him.

The Sioux chief rode out to meet him, alone and unarmed, as was the
stranger. The stranger was the first to break silence, which he did by
demanding:

"Who are you?"

"I am Red Pine--"

"A Sioux?" interrupted the first.

"Yes, a chief of the Sioux! Why do you ask?"

"Is the great chief of the Blackfeet with you?"

"Gray Eagle, the Blackfoot chief, is the prisoner of Red Pine," he
answered. "But who are you that asks?"

"I am White Wolf, the great chief of the Pawnees, and I want your
prisoner!"

The mention of the name, Pawnee, struck a chill to the heart of Red
Pine; for it is a fact that nearly all the western Indians stand in
wholesome fear of them, and would as soon meet a spirit of evil as a
Pawnee. I can not say why this is so, but give it as the facts in the
case.

Red Pine saw that the affair was assuming rather a formidable shape,
yet he did not feel disposed to give it up so.

"Why does my brother want the Blackfoot chief?" he asked.

"White Wolf has promised to bring him to his daughter, the Snowdrop,
then she is to be my wife."

"Does White Wolf know where Snowdrop is now?"

"Yes, she is in the camp of White Wolf, among the hills."

"Did the Pawnee see any of the Sioux warriors when he found her?"

"Yes," replied White Wolf, and he chuckled to himself as he continued,
"they will never return to their chief!"

"Why so?" asked Red Pine.

"Because their scalps hang in the belts of my warriors, as yours will
soon, if you do not give up the chief, Snowdrop's father!"

Were all the plans of Red Pine to be frustrated in this way, after he
had come so far, and been to so much trouble? Were the fond hopes he
had entertained when leaving the village of his people to be lost now,
when they were so near realization? Must he give up the main object of
his mission, and go back without the Blackfoot maiden?

Impossible! He would die first! So he said:

"Gray Eagle is my prisoner, and the Pawnee can not have him!"

Without a word White Wolf turned and rode toward his band, and Red Pine
returned to his warriors.

White Wolf was a big, fat, burly Indian, who has since become quite
well known on the plains as the meanest beggar of them all; one who
will steal a blanket or murder a white man for the sake of a drink of
whisky. He has became very much demoralized since the time we first met
him, demanding the prisoner of the Sioux chief.

Red Pine is not much better, though much younger. He was never known
to do an act of kindness, and was by nature cruel and vindictive. Each
were, and still are, a type of their respective tribes.

Neither were disposed to wait very long. Red Pine because he was
in haste to have it over, believing that he would be the victor,
notwithstanding the foe with whom he had to deal was no common one.
White Wolf was in a hurry for the same reasons, and also because he was
in haste to secure Snowdrop for a wife, as he had no doubt he would.

Both were destined to learn that disappointment is the lot of mankind.

The battle was commenced by the Pawnees discharging a shower of arrows
at the Sioux. Then the Sioux returned the compliment, and thus they
continued for nearly an hour, not seeming to make much headway, or to
cause any very great slaughter. They did yelling enough, however, for
an army of twenty thousand men, and this, by the way, is the manner of
Indian fighting generally.

Usually, one party or the other will run before that time, but in
this case both of the leaders had too much at stake--both wanted the
Blackfoot girl.

The warrior who had been left to guard Gray Eagle had taken his captive
and started off at the first round between the opposing forces.

This movement had not escaped the notice of the Pawnee chief, and he
immediately started two of his warriors to intercept the Sioux, and
recapture Gray Eagle. In this movement they were quite successful; the
fact being that the Sioux guard deserted his prisoner as soon as he
found himself pursued--believing, no doubt, that discretion was the
better part of valor.

His new captors conducted Gray Eagle to a position where he could watch
the progress of the battle, then one of them returned to take a part in
the, thus far, bloodless war, and to inform his chief, White Wolf, of
their success.

Then White Wolf resolved to strike his death-blow, and giving the order
to charge, they swept down upon the Sioux, and a hand-to-hand fight
ensued.

But it was of short duration, for the Sioux soon broke and fled for
their lives.

The Pawnees did not pursue them very far, as they had secured what they
came after, and were now ready to return to their camp.

Gray Eagle was not very well pleased when he learned into whose hands
he had now fallen, for he, too, dreaded the Pawnees.

White Wolf saluted his prisoner kindly and said:

"I have rescued Gray Eagle from the hands of the Sioux squaws, and when
Snowdrop sees him safe she will consent to be the wife of White Wolf."

"Does the chief know where Snowdrop is?" asked the chief.

"In the camp of White Wolf, a day's ride from here," was the reply.

"How came she there?" demanded the old chief.

"White Wolf found her upon the big plain toward the village of the
Blackfeet. Let us go."

Gray Eagle knew the utter uselessness of arguing the question with the
Pawnee chief, and bowing his head they rode away.

The Pawnees had discovered the party of Blackfeet at the same time that
Jehiel had done so, and just now it occurred to White Wolf that he was
in rather a disagreeable situation. He saw that the party of Blackfeet
outnumbered his party, five to one, and he knew that they were brave
warriors and would not run as easily as the Sioux had done.

Gray Eagle was pleased at the turn in affairs, as would naturally be
expected; but when he saw that Snowdrop was one of the approaching
party, he turned to White Wolf and said:

"Does my brother speak with a forked tongue?"

"No," replied the Pawnee; "who dare say he does?"

"He said that the daughter of Gray Eagle was in the camp of White Wolf,
a day's ride from here. Now Gray Eagle sees her there with his people!"

White Wolf did not know what to say. He had left the Blackfoot beauty a
prisoner in the hands of two trusty warriors, and for the life of him
he could not imagine who had rescued her. He said:

"Shall there be peace between the Pawnee and Blackfeet braves, or shall
White Wolf take the scalp of Gray Eagle and go away?"

The old Blackfoot chief saw that there was much to gain and nothing to
lose, and he replied:

"There shall be peace." And they again moved on.

The young chief who led the party of Blackfeet accompanied by Snowdrop
and Jehiel, now rode forward, leaving the Blackfeet in a body; while
Gray Eagle and White Wolf rode out to meet them.

"Has the Blackfoot maiden a sister who looks just like herself?" asked
the astonished Pawnee.

"No, Snowdrop has no sister," replied the girl. "I see you thought I
was your prisoner. I was, but I did not stay so very long."

"How did you get away?" asked White Wolf.

"I rode away! Your warriors slept too sound, you see."

"Waugh!" was all White Wolf could say. He knew that Snowdrop was merely
trying to banter him, and after a moment's reflection, he said:

"The warriors shall die! They are not fit to live if they can not keep
one little squaw!"

"No, they will not die!" assented Snowdrop.

The chief looked at her in surprise. He was not in the habit of having
squaws contradict his word.

"White Wolf is his own master, and the chief of all the Pawnees! Why
does the Blackfoot maiden say they shall not die?"

"Because they are dead already!" answered Snowdrop.

"Dead! Who killed them?"

"I killed one; Long Hunter the other," she replied.

White Wolf glared fiercely at her, as if he could kill her where she
sat, but in a few moments the expression changed, and he said:

"I have rescued your father from the hands of the Sioux as I promised;
now will Snowdrop go to the home of White Wolf, and be his squaw? She
shall have as many slaves as she wants, and there shall be peace
between the tribes. What says the queen of the Blackfeet?"

"That she does not love the great chief of the Pawnees, and can never
enter his lodge," replied Snowdrop.

"Does she love some one else?"

"Yes, Snowdrop will be the wife of White Panther or marry no one!"

"Who is the White Panther?" asked the chief.

"He is the bravest of pale-faces, and Snowdrop will give her life to
him!"

"Tell me where he is, that I may go and kill him. He is a dog!"

Hardly had the words escaped his lips before he received a blow upon
the side of his head which knocked him from his horse, and laid him
senseless upon the ground.

"There, ye everlastin' skunk!" exclaimed Jehiel, for it was he had
administered the blow, "that'll l'arn ye not to be callin' names!"

The Pawnees seized their weapons when they saw their chief go to the
ground, but at the motion, the Sioux also put themselves in readiness
to repel any attack.

Slowly the Pawnee chief rose to his feet, and for a moment he seemed
to be measuring the strength of Jehiel, then his smothered indignation
found vent, and he exclaimed:

"The pale-face shall die!"

"Waal, he won't, unless he runs across a smarter red-skin than you
are!" exclaimed Jehiel.

"If he is not a coward he will fight the great chief of the Pawnees,
and White Wolf will surely kill him!" said the chief.

"Waal, I may be a coward, but I ain't afeard of you nor any other
durned Injun in this kentry. An' durn yer skin, I'll fight ye any day
and place ye dare to mention!"

"Then we will fight now and here," said the chief.

"Agreed! You'll see fair play, won't you?" he asked of Gray Eagle.

"Yes," replied the chief. "If White Wolf kills my friend, he must do it
fairly."

"Bully for you, old feller!" said Jehiel. Then turning to White Wolf,
he said:

"Now, ye red sarpent, jes' git off there; an' when the old chief gives
the word, we will see who can shoot the best."

"No," replied the Indian, "the gun of the pale-face is better than that
of White Wolf. Let us fight with knives."

"Not much, you don't!" exclaimed Jehiel, who was not very skillful in
the use of that implement, "not much, you don't. I don't want to dirty
my knife--it's the one I use to cut my meat with, and it would go
ag'in' my stomach to use it arter I'd cut a dirty Injun to pieces!"

"Then let the chief of the Blackfeet say how the fight shall be," said
White Wolf.

"Agreed, ag'in! Crack ahead chief, and any way you say fight, I'll
fight!"

"Gray Eagle says, let the fight be with knives and on foot," was the
decision of the chief; and although it did not exactly suit Jehiel, he
immediately began to strip for the fight.

He was soon naked to the waist, and handing his gun and garments to
Snowdrop, he asked her to hold them for him. He was encouraged by a
sweet smile from her, and in reply to the whispered, "Kill him if you
can," he replied:

"I'll do it, sartin!"

White Wolf then stripped, and he too handed his gun to Snowdrop, but
she refused it with scorn. This angered the Pawnee still more, and he
exclaimed:

"Wait until I kill the pale-face dog!" and he strode into the circle
which had been formed by the two parties pressing forward in their
eagerness to see what was going on.

White Wolf was a tall, finely formed Indian, and was well skilled in
the use of the knife, so that really, he had the advantage over Jehiel;
but what Jehiel lacked in skill and experience, he more than made up in
quickness and grit.

They stood within six feet of each other, waiting for Gray Eagle to
give the signal to commence.

So it came, and as the two forms met, the gleaming steel told that the
battle was begun. Flashing in the sunlight, as the antagonists came
together, and then sprung apart, only to renew the conflict without a
moment's pause.

Jehiel soon became satisfied that he was in no particular danger from
the Pawnee chief, and he laughed to himself as he parried the furious
blows of the Indian. But he soon grew tired of this, and pressed hard
upon his adversary, who gradually fell back toward the side of the
circle occupied by his warriors.

Jehiel anticipated his intentions, and springing past the Pawnee,
placed himself between the chief and his warriors.

Then he pressed the Pawnee still harder, and began to nerve himself for
the last desperate effort.

By a skillful blow he severed the string by which the knife of the
chief was attached to his wrist, and another lightning-like stroke sent
the Indian's knife whirling a rod away.

"Now, red-skin, if you hain't satisfied, go and pick up your knife and
I'll do it again."

"The pale-face can take the scalp of White Wolf, for he has won it!"
replied the chief.

"I don't want yer scalp, ye durned fool, but I guess, seein' it's you,
I'll cut it off close to yer head; then, while you're raisin' another
one, you can think of the lickin' I've g'in ye."

"White Wolf will not accept life from a pale-face dog!" exclaimed the
chief.

Again the sledge-hammer fist of Jehiel came in contact with the head of
the Pawnee, and again the chief found himself flat on his back.

"Waal, now, didn't I tell you so?" said Jehiel. "I don't take _dog_
from no man, let alone a durned Injun."

Then Jehiel shaved the braided scalp-lock of the Pawnee chief close to
his head, after which he returned, and donning his garments, mounted
his horse and was ready for the next thing that might turn up.

White Wolf was not slow in following his example, and then withdrew
with his warriors, without saying a word to any one.




                              CHAPTER IX.

                           BEAR-PAW AT HOME.


The party at the cave were enjoying themselves as well as they could
under the circumstances.

Kelly was getting anxious about his friend Jehiel, and had resolved
that, if he did not make his appearance in the vicinity that day, he
would go in search of him next morning.

But he did not know that about that time Jehiel was having his little
round with the Pawnee chief--if he had, he would not have rested quite
so easily.

Then there was his promise to Gray Eagle, which was only half kept, but
which he resolved should be fulfilled to the letter.

Yes, he _would_ have the scalp of the Sioux chief, or die in the
attempt to get it.

Nulela, the sister of Red Pine, was indeed happy, and with good
reason--the white man whom she had rescued from her brother's power now
reciprocated her great love, and she felt herself amply rewarded for
the risk she had run and the sacrifice she had made.

Full well she knew that she could not return to her own people, except
in disgrace. Such is the moral code of the Sioux--if a maiden of the
tribe marries a white man, and he dies, or, as is more generally the
case, deserts her, she is thenceforth an outcast.

For a long time after the old trapper had tendered them the
hospitalities of his subterranean retreat, they sat beside the fire
trying to determine what was best to be done.

"I am afraid that the Sioux will hang around here until they find out
some way to get into this cave," said Curtiss.

"Young man," said the old trapper, "it ar' a great pity yer could not
hev been born with more brains, an' less stomach!"

"What do you mean, sir?" exclaimed the astonished young man.

"I mean yer must be a durned fool fur bein' afraid, when I've told yer
thar ain't a mite o' danger in here!"

Curtiss thought his best plan was to humor the eccentricities of Old
Bear-Paw, and it was perhaps well that he did.

"Kem with me, my friends," said the trapper, "an' I'll convince yer we
ar' perfeckly safe."

He led the way to the further end of the cave, where the party found
themselves standing upon the brink of a fearful chasm, the light from
the torches revealing no boundary except that upon which they stood.
Below and beyond them, all was inky blackness.

"Gracious, what a place!" said Kelly. "Do you know how deep this hole
is, or what is on the other side?"

"Yas. I've bin down inter this 'ar' hole clean ter ther bottom, an' ef
yer behave yerselves purty well, I'll take yer down thar with me, one
of these days."

"Thank you," replied the scout; "but do you know what is on the other
side of here?"

"Sartin, I've bin thar too! Would yer like ter go over? I've got er
menagery over thar, as ther show fellers used ter say, uv ther finest
livin' speciments on ther contynunt!"

"But how do you get across?--I can't see. Two steps more and down you
go, into that bottomless pit. It is not possible that you can walk on
air, and there is no way of making a bridge, that I can see."

"Yer see, I ain't lived here ten years fur nothin'--so now I'll show
yer how it's done."

He stepped to one side and returned holding in his hand the end of a
rope, the other end of which was lost in the darkness above them.

"Now yer see," said the old man, "yer jest hang on ter this yer end, an
swing off. Wull, ther swing 'll take yer clear across this yer black
hole--then when yer feel yerself comin' back, all yer hev ter do is
ter drap yer feet down, an' ye'll find yerself on terry furmy onc't
more. Then yer kin throw ther rope back fur ther next feller, ef thar
is any more, an' ef thar ain't yer must hang it up on ther peg at ther
side--'cause ef yer don't it will hang straight down ther middle arter
it gits done swinging. Then thar can't no one git it."

"Yes, I understand. Now, Mr.--"

"Bear-Paw, I told yer, only leave off ther mister!"

"Well, Bear-Paw, supposing you take your torch and go across, then we
will follow you."

The old trapper took the torch between his teeth and seizing the rope
with both hands, he swung off. In a minute he waved his torch on the
other side, and shouted--"Ketch ther rope," and in another minute Kelly
was ready to follow.

He tried the rope, as if to make sure that it would hold his weight,
never considering that a much larger man had just swung on the same
rope; and it was with a sensation that he had never before experienced,
that he grasped it firmly and swung off. He soon found himself beside
the old trapper, who said:

"Yer done it well, boy! But I'm afeard that booby over thar won't dare
ter try it!"

He shouted to Curtiss to catch the rope, and again it went to the other
side and was caught by him.

"You go first, Nulela," said Curtiss.

"No, Nulela will follow her chief!"

"Are you sure you can hang on?"

"Nulela is not a child," she replied. "But is the white chief afraid?"

"Oh, no! But what should I do if you were to fall? It would be instant
death!"

"Does my chief then care for me?"

"Care for you? Yes, little one--I love you!" he answered.

"Oh! I am so glad!" exclaimed the Indian girl; "then I can go with you,
and be your wife?"

"Yes," replied Curtiss, "if we ever get out of here."

A call from both Kelly and the old trapper to "hurry up," put a stop
to their love-making, and Curtiss took a firm hold upon the rope and
started for the other side. He had barely regained his feet when the
old trapper seized the rope and sprung out, leaving the scout and
Curtiss alone on the brink of the chasm.

Their first thought was of treachery. Could it be possible that the
old man was about to leave them there as the easiest and surest way of
getting rid of them?

They surmised all sorts of things--probable and improbable. They saw
him land on the other side. Here he said to the Indian girl:

"Jest wait a minit till I git some more torches."

Then he put the rope into her hand to hold until he should return.
Presently he came back with a lighted torch in his hand, and several
more stuck in his belt.

"Now, gal, we'll jine our friends on ther other side."

He held his torch up to her face, to see if she exhibited any signs of
fear, but though he saw no such expression, he saw what puzzled him
more--he saw that her eyes were blue.

"Girl, who are you? Certainly you are no Indian!" he exclaimed, in
language entirely different from that he generally used.

"I am Nulela, the sister of Red Pine," she answered.

He looked at her a moment, as if trying to recollect some
half-forgotten event, and bowing his head upon his hands, the strong
man wept.

"Can it be that I have found my lost one?" he murmured. "My God! If it
should be true, what a joyful ending there would be to all these years
of sorrow and heart-ache! But no, it can not be! _She_ was stolen by
the fierce Apaches, and this one--ha! where is she?"

During his soliloquy the Indian girl had swung off and was now standing
beside her friends on the other side of the chasm, and the voice of
Kelly was heard shouting:

"Here comes the rope, Bear-Paw, catch it!"

A moment later and the old man stood beside them.

"Wull," he said, "yer kem acrost all right, didn't yer? An' now we'll
go an' see ther anermiles."

Proceeding a few yards further into the cave, he turned abruptly to the
left, and entered a large circular room. Here the party were greeted
with a chorus of howls, yells, and snarlings, which continued until the
old man said:

"Hush! yer 'tarnal critters! Don't yer see I've brought yer some
company?"

Immediately the growling ceased, and the old man led the way around the
room.

Chained to the walls were four monster bears and an equal number of
panthers, and they manifested great pleasure when the old trapper
patted them on the head, and called them by their names.

The party were much surprised when the old trapper removed the chain
from the neck of the largest grizzly, and said to him--"Now go an'
shake paws with ther gentlemen." The bear did as he was ordered, and
returned to his master.

"Do you have many visitors?" asked the scout.

"No, yer ther only men these anermiles has seen in eight year," was the
reply of the trapper.

"I should think it would take you all of the time to keep these fellows
in meat."

"Thar yer mightily mistaken then, for when thar is too many reds about,
I send them out ter hunt fur me! Now yer moughtn't like ter b'lieve me,
but I kin send any one uv 'em out, an' they'll bring in suthen ter eat
quicker nor either uv yer fellers kin."

"Is it possible that they are so well trained as that?" asked the scout.

"I'll show yer," replied the hunter, and he let loose a huge panther,
and patting him on the head, said:

"Now, Andy Jackson, go an' ketch me a deer, an' be spry about it, too!
Yer knows whar ter find 'em, don't yer?"

The animal looked up at the hunter's face, and then actually nodded his
head in assent.

"Wull, go on then, an' don't yer stop ter play!"

The panther bounded past the party and disappeared in the gloom beyond.

"How in the world can he get out?" asked Curtiss. "Surely he can not
swing over the chain?"

"Wull, I reckon he could ef I'd ever l'arnt him! But yer see ther's no
occasion--this yer hole goes clean through ther mountain. But I'll show
yer thet some other time."

"Hark! What is that?"

"It's Andy Jackson passin' ther guard," replied the trapper.

"Who do you have for a guard?"

"He's er brother uv Andy Jackson, but I calls him Barnum jest 'cause he
kin humbug more Injuns than any other feller in ther kentry, 'thout it
ar' ther king uv humbugs, old Barnum his self. Tell yer what, stranger,
he's ther knowin'est varmint uv 'em all. 'Tain't more'n ten days ago, I
war out looking arter things gineraly, when I run inter a nest uv 'bout
er dozen Blackfeet. They had er white feller what they war a-goin' ter
roast, an' I allowed it didn't look jest right, so I kem back an' got
Andy Jackson an Barnum, an' we went fur ter stop ther fun. Wull, they
war so 'tarnal busy with ther white man that they didn't see us at all,
tell jest as they war goin' ter set fire ter ther brush. Then I shot
ther feller what was ther leader, an' you'd jest orter see'd them two
boys, Andy an' Barnum, sail in, an' go ter sp'ilin' Injuns! Fact, thar
didn't a one uv 'em git away! All ther Injuns in this kentry are scart
uv me, an call me a heap big medicine; so they don't very often kem
around here--an' thet leaves me all uv ther trappin' ter myself. Kem,
let's go back now to ther fire."

"But what will become of Andy Jackson?" asked the scout.

"Oh, he'll kem back purty soon, an' be in his stall when I want him!"

"What will he do with the meat, even supposing that he gets any?"

"He'll dervide with the rest, like a man," replied the trapper.

"I don't believe--"

The speaker was interrupted by the old man, saying:

"Thar he kems, now. Ef yer don't b'lieve it, jest keep watch on him."

The trained panther came bounding in, with the carcass of a deer in his
mouth, and thrown across his back.

Kelly noticed that the head was gone, and said:

"Andy stopped by the way to take his own lunch, I see."

"Yer don't see anything uv ther kind! Andy jest chawed ther head off,
an' giv it to Barnum, 'cause thet's his favor-_ite_ piece. 'Sides yer
see it saves ther trouble uv ruunin' back when he feeds ther rest. Yer
needn't laugh, fur as sure as yer live, that ar' Andy Jackson has got
more good sense than half uv ther humans in this territory. Now, ef
yer ain't in a hurry, jest watch ther critter."

The panther had laid the deer upon the floor of the cavern, and stood
wagging his tail in anticipation, while the old hunter took his knife
and proceeded to cut it into so many pieces as there were animals.

"Thar, Andy," he said, "feed ther rest, an' take yer own piece, an' go
ter bed."

The party were by this time prepared for 'most any degree of
tractability on the part of the animal, yet they could not repress an
exclamation of admiration and surprise, when they saw the animal do as
he was bid; it was hard for them to imagine how they could be brought
so completely under the control of the strange old man.

They recrossed the chasm in the same manner in which they had gone
over, and were soon again seated around the fire.

Curtiss and the Indian girl were upon one side, by themselves,
completely lost to their surroundings. But, the story of their
love-making was so like others of the same kind, that need not repeat
it here. Those of my readers who do not "know how it is themselves,"
have the sympathies of the writer!




                              CHAPTER X.

                         A WOMAN ON THE TRAIL.


In his fight with the Pawnees, Red Pine had lost several warriors,
which fact was not at all calculated to produce any good feeling on his
part. More than this, he lost what he could not well afford to--his
temper.

He fumed and swore around, venting his anger upon whoever happened to
get in his way.

He resolved to make one more desperate fight, even if he had to take
all the warriors of the Sioux nation to do it. Just then, he felt as if
he would like to exterminate the whole Pawnee tribe, and the Blackfeet,
too, with the exception of Snowdrop. Especially would he sweep from
the face of the earth the young pale-face who had come between him and
his desires.

To this end he dispatched his swiftest runners to the Sioux village
with an earnest appeal for help. There is no doubt in the world but
that he misrepresented facts to his superiors, but then his conscience
was one of those elastic affairs which do not give their possessor much
trouble, and he thought that all was fair in war as in love.

Then, too, his sister was gone, and he knew that he would not dare to
go back without her. Had he been alone, he would have trumped up some
lie, by which he might get clear of all responsibility; but he knew
that many of the old warriors who were with him, would not hesitate to
put the affair in its true light before the councilors of the nation.

Thus we find him encamped with his followers within a few miles of the
scene of his recent defeat, to await the return of his messengers.

And White Wolf felt very much as if he had been doing a large amount of
work for a very small remuneration.

He was not angry--oh! no! But, as Jehiel remarked when he saw the
Pawnees leaving: "I'll jest bet that critter feels awful demoralized!"

White Wolf knew that somewhere among the hills there was a white man
who had been instrumental in rescuing Snowdrop from the hands of the
Sioux, and who stood between his wishes and the love of the Blackfoot
queen; and he resolved to hunt up that white man, and put him out of
the way.

So he returned to the place where he had won so decisive and brilliant
a victory over the Sioux, and went into camp.

We left Jehiel mounted and ready for whatever might turn up next, and
there he sat, as did the whole band of Blackfeet, until the Pawnees
were nearly out of sight.

"We will go to the village of my people," said Gray Eagle; and he
turned his horse and started for the north, followed by the Blackfoot
warriors.

He had gone a full mile when he spoke to Snowdrop; but receiving no
answer, he looked around to see what had become of her. Then he saw
her and Jehiel standing where he had left them.

Ordering his band to remain where they were, the old chief galloped
back.

"Why does my daughter and the Long Hunter stay here?" he asked.

Snowdrop did not reply, but Jehiel did.

"Waal, old man, we was tryin' to think of suthin' mean enough to call
you for desarting a friend in this way."

"What does the Long Hunter mean?" asked the old chief.

"I mean just this, that you're an old liar! You agreed to be a friend
to us fellers, if Lew would get your gal away from the Sioux! He did
it, he did, and now, dog gone your old pictur', you was goin' off hum
without tryin' to find out if he is dead or alive! I told Lew just how
it would be, when he said you had swore to befriend him. I don't think
much of such friends as that!"

"White Panther promised to bring the scalp of Red Pine to Gray Eagle,
and he has not done it."

"Waal," replied Jehiel, "he hadn't had time yet. Jest wait a few days,
and you'll see him come walkin' inter your camp a-whistlin' Yankee
Doodle, and old Red Pine's head under his arm--see if you don't!"

"Gray Eagle can not wait. The Long Hunter had better find his friend
and go home, or my warriors will find them and kill them both!"

"Are you goin' to desart Lew Kelly in this way?" asked the thoroughly
angry Yankee.

"Gray Eagle owes the pale-face nothing, for he has not done all he
promised."

"I've a good mind to shoot you myself, you 'tarnal old traitor you!"
exclaimed Jehiel.

The old chief did not notice him, but turning to Snowdrop he said:

"Come, my daughter."

He turned and started toward his band, but Snowdrop made no effort to
follow him.

He came back with an angry frown upon his face. It was the first time
Snowdrop had ever refused to obey him.

"Why does my daughter linger?" he asked.

"Snowdrop will not enter her father's lodge until he has found the
White Panther! He saved her life, and Snowdrop will not desert him!"

"The Pawnees have gone that way, and they will find him and kill him!"
replied the old chief.

"Then Snowdrop will die with him!" exclaimed the maiden.

The old chief loved his daughter as the apple of his eye, and he knew
that she would not give up by coaxing--she was too much a chip of the
old block for that.

He could take her home by force; but she would certainly run away if he
did.

He could confine her so that she could not leave; but she would take
her own life.

He knew the scout would not take Snowdrop for his wife--he had heard
him say that he had a wife already.

Looking at the case in all its bearings, he resolved to assist his
daughter in finding White Panther, and then compel him to marry her,
whether or not. So he said:

"Gray Eagle will find the pale-face, and give him to Snowdrop."

Signaling for his band to return, he started for the place where he had
last seen Lew Kelly. When within a few miles of the place a scout came
running back with the intelligence that the Pawnees were encamped on
the old battle-ground.

This intelligence was not at all pleasing to him, for it necessitated
the making of his camp on the side of the range where he then was.
However, necessity knows no law, and he was obliged to call a halt upon
arriving at the foot of the hill.

He did not know that the object of his search was within short
rifle-shot of him at that moment.

He had made his camp close by a small stream which ran along the base
of the hill. Upon the opposite side of the stream the rocks towered
above them a hundred feet or more, forming an insurmountable barrier to
further progress in that direction; and with his scouts out, he did not
fear surprise.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lew Kelly was telling Bear-Paw how he came to be in that section, and
also of the treaty of peace he had made with Gray Eagle.

"But," he said, "I don't know whether the old chief will consider
himself bound to keep the contract until I bring him the scalp of the
Sioux chief, as I promised. I hope he will, for there is plenty of game
about here, and every indication of gold. In the hills, where my friend
and I made our camp, we found several nuggets of pure gold; and I have
no doubt there is plenty of it among these hills, as they are of the
same range."

"I've got er gold-mine what'll do yer eyes good ter see," said the old
trapper. "Jest wait er minit an' I'll show yer."

He went to the opposite side of the room, and returned, bearing a
buck-skin bag, which he opened and poured the contents upon the floor
before the scout.

"Thar," he said, "is about fifty pounds of ther durned stuff, enuf ter
make yer rich fur life; an' I'll give yer ther hull lot on't, ef ye'll
agree ter go hum, an' never say nothin' about thar bein' any here."

The scout was too much surprised to reply.

"What does yer say?" asked the trapper. "Ain't it enuf?"

"Yes, it is enough," replied Kelly; "but, did you find it all among
these hills?"

"Sartin. An' I kin show yer more nor ten bushels uv it, layin' around
loose!"

"Where?"

"Down in ther kasm--will yer go down an' see it?"

"Not now," replied the scout. "I must find out, first, where my friend
is. I blame myself for keeping still so long, and if you will let me
out, I will go to the top of the bluff and see if I can discover him."

"All right. I'll go with yer," replied Bear-Paw.

Kelly took care to return the gold to the bag, and place it where he
could find it again; then he signified his readiness to go.

"I'm goin' out, gal," the old trapper said to the aged negro woman.
"Jest keep yer ears open, fur I may be in a hurry when I kem back," and
they were ushered into the outer cavern.

A low whinny greeted Kelly.

"Poor old horse!" he said, "you are on short rations just now. I must
try and get you something to eat."

"Yes," said Bear-Paw, "we'll cut some grass fur ther critter, an' bring
back with us."

Kelly led his horse to the water, and after he had drank, returned him
to the cavern and told him to lie down.

The two men were soon upon the level plateau which formed the top of
the hill. Once there, they saw a sight which surprised them not a
little.

Directly below them was the camp of the Pawnees, while beyond, and not
more than five miles away, they could discern another camp, but could
not make out who they were.

Kelly easily recognized the Pawnees, for he was well acquainted with
them, and knew White Wolf almost as well as he did Jehiel.

"I wonder who those others can be, off yonder," he said.

"I can't tell yer, they's so fur off; but you can bet they ain't no
Blackfeet!"

"How do you know?" asked the scout.

"'Cause that 'ar is west, an' ther Blackfoot village ar' off here ter
ther north furder. Le's go over ter ther other side an' see ef we can
diskiver them."

Approaching the other side, they saw immediately below them the camps
of Gray Eagle, and Kelly recognized his friend Jehiel, and also
Snowdrop.

"What does this all mean, do you suppose?" he asked.

"Can't tell," replied the trapper. "It looks as ef there mought be fun
ahead. But come on, le's cut some grass fur ther hoss an' git back.
We'll know more about it afore mornin'."

With their knives they cut each a large bundle of grass, and returned
to the cavern. The scout threw down his load, but the old trapper said:

"No, not thar. We must take ther animile inside, fur I an goin' ter hev
this room full uv Injuns afore long."

"What do you mean?" asked the scout.

"Jest yer wait an' see," was all the reply he could get.

The old trapper was getting terribly excited about something, and it
was not until after the huge rock door was between them and the outer
cave that he regained his composure.

Kelly found a good place for his horse, and throwing a bundle of grass
before him, left him to his own enjoyment. This done, he was about to
seat himself beside the fire, when Bear-Paw said to him--"Kem with me,"
and they proceeded to the chasm, where they swung over.

From a recess in the wall the old man took a bow and arrows and a long
rope, and led the way into the room used as the menagerie.

"Now," said he, "jest write er letter ter yer friend, an' I'll let him
know whar yer ar'"--and while the scout was writing a few words to
satisfy his friend of his safety, the old trapper went about among his
animals, talking to them, and petting them in his usual manner.

When the letter was completed, he told Kelly to follow him, and then
led the way to the rear entrance of the cave.

He soon arrived near the opening, where he halted and said:

"Don't let Barnum humbug yer, fur he kin scratch like ther Old Boy,
ef he's a mind ter. Yer see, he's crosser nor ther rest, an' ain't in
ther habit uv lettin' folks go by him. But ef yer keep close ter me, I
reckon ye'll be all right."

Proceeding a few feet further, they came to an abrupt turn in the
passage, and a low growl warned them that they were near the guard. The
old trapper held his torch before him and went ahead.

"Shut up, Barnum! What ar' yer so sassy about? I'll give yer a
lickin'," he said, "ef yer don't quit yer foolishness."

And he stood and talked to the animal until Kelly had passed beyond his
reach.

About fifty feet further on, they came to the end of the cave, and
the daylight streaming in from above showed Kelly the outlet of this
singular cavern. With the exception of the chasm, it was a complete
tunnel through the mountain.

The old trapper brought a ladder of poles, which he placed against the
side of the opening, and told the scout to go up and see what he could
discover.

An exclamation of surprise escaped the lips of Kelly, as he beheld, not
more than four rods away, the camp of the Blackfeet.

Jehiel was just leading his horse to the creek to give him water, when
the scout told the old man to come up where he was.

In a moment Bear-Paw was by his side, and hastily fitting an arrow to
the bow-string, he sent it within an inch of Jehiel's foot, where it
stuck in the sand.

Jehiel sprung back as though bitten by a snake, and looked up to see
who had discharged it; but could discover no sign of any living being
in the huge bowlders opposite. Then he pulled the arrow from the
ground, and returned to the camp.

"Come here, little gal," he said to Snowdrop; "I want to tell you
suthin."

The Indian girl came out, and Jehiel showed her the arrow, and after
explaining how it came in his possession, added:

"I guessed you might know more about it than me. What does it mean? Kin
you tell, from the looks of the stick, what tribe made it?"

The girl took the arrow and examined both the steel head and the spiral
coil of feathers upon the tip.

"Snowdrop does not know. She will ask her father; perhaps he can
tell--but what is that tied around it?"

Then Jehiel observed, what had before escaped his notice, that a piece
of paper was wrapped about the arrow-stem, and he carefully removed it.

"Jewhillakens!" was his exclamation, as he recognized the handwriting.

He read it over to himself, while Snowdrop stood waiting for an
explanation.

Jehiel looked up with a puzzled expression--he did not know whether it
would be safe for him to tell her or not. He more than half-doubted the
sincerity of the Blackfoot chief--at the same time, he had resolved to
shoot him, should he find that Gray Eagle had deceived them.

And, he argued, what need he care for Snowdrop? She still insisted
that she would be no man's wife if she could not be the wife of White
Panther.

Jehiel knew that there was no earthly hope for her in that direction,
and he rather congratulated himself on the fact that he was not the
only one who would be disappointed.

"Waal, Snowdrop," he said, "this here letter is from Lew Kelly, the
feller what you call White Panther--"

"Where is he? What does he say?" eagerly demanded the Indian girl.

"He's all right," replied Jehiel, "and I'll read you what he says," and
the scout read:

    "FRIEND JEHIEL: I am safe and sound, and with good friends.
    Tell Gray Eagle that the Pawnees are encamped on the other side of
    the hill. If he wants to fight them, let him find the pass to the
    top of the hill, where he can pick them off at his leisure. There
    is another camp a few miles further west, but I can not tell who
    they are. As soon as it is dark, do you ride around the hill until
    you strike the creek. Get into it, and walk up until you come to
    the falls, where you will find me. We must leave here as soon as
    possible; there is danger ahead.

                                                                 Yours,
                                                                  LEW."

As he concluded reading, the face of the Indian girl grew bright, and
she said:

"I am so glad! I shall see the White Panther once more."

"Yaas, I s'pose so," said Jehiel. "But you'll please to obsarve that he
didn't ask you to come along."

"No matter, I shall go!" was the positive reply.

"Waal, jest as you like; but if you want the old man to know any thing
about this gittin' on top of the hill, you'd better tell him--I won't!
The infarnal old traitor! I wouldn't keer a durn if the Pawnees should
lick him like blazes!"

Snowdrop went and told her father what the scout had written, and he
immediately sent several warriors to look for the pass.

The top of the hill was inaccessible except at one point, and a dozen
well-armed men could have guarded the plateau against all the Indians
in the territory.

The shades of night were just falling around the Indian camp, when,
without a word as to their intentions, Jehiel and Snowdrop started
south, along the base of the hill, in search of the creek which was to
lead them to the hiding-place of the brave scout.




                              CHAPTER XI.

                            CROW EAT CROW.


Upon returning to the menagerie room the old trapper still retained the
rope, of which he had as yet made no use. Seeing that the scout noticed
it, he said:

"Yes, I didn't know but yer mought want ter draw yer friend up ter ther
openin' uv ther cave, but yer seemed ter hev some other plans uv yer
own; so now mebby we'd better improve the time ter go down inter ther
kasm."

"I should like to visit it before I leave," replied Kelly. "I am afraid
we shall never have another chance."

"What makes yer talk that a-way?" asked Bear-Paw.

"I don't know, indeed, but somehow I feel as if there was going to be
some fighting around here, before this time to-morrow; and I have a
kind of foreordination that you and I will be mixed up in it."

"An' so hev I," replied the old trapper. "An' more nor that, I've er
big notion that I'll git killed, and yer won't! But it's time enuf to
think on that bime-by. Only ef I should happen ter go under, an' yer
don't, I want ye ter promise me yer will take the nigger gal with yer,
an' take good care uv her es long she lives. She's ther only friend I
hev on airth, an' I'll leave enuf fur ter pervide fur her es long es
she lives. What do yer say?"

"That I will accept the trust, and guard her life as I would my own!"
replied the scout.

"I knew yer would, and now let's go down."

He fastened one end of the rope round a projecting rock, and let the
other fall into the darkness below.

"Does that rope reach to the bottom of the chasm?" asked Kelly.

"No," replied the old trapper, "not more nor half-way. But I've got
er pair uv stairs thar what goes ter ther bottom. I'll go first, with
the light, then yer kin foller. Yer see ther rope is knotted, so that
yer won't hev much trouble in hangin' on--an' boy, jest stick some
torch-wood in yer belt, fur it's orful dark down thar."

The old trapper descended the rope with an agility surprising in one so
old, and gave the signal for the scout to follow.

He soon found himself standing upon a ledge of rock, about six feet
square, from which he could see steps leading down into the darkness
below, evidently cut in the soft limestone rock.

To the scout there seemed no end to the steps, but he soon found
himself walking along upon the level ground.

"Light er couple uv torches," said Bear-Paw, "an' I'll show yer more
gold nor yer ever dreamed on."

The scout did so, and the old man's promise was fulfilled.

Some great convulsion of nature had rent in twain the mountain of rock,
revealing on all sides countless seams--and they were filled with
gold. What he had supposed to be pebbles under his feet, proved on
inspection, to be nuggets of pure gold.

He thought not of the treasures by which he was surrounded, but of the
Great Architect who had planned it all; and reverently he bowed his
head, as if in the immediate presence of the Divine Master.

He was utterly overwhelmed by the magnificent grandeur of his
surroundings, and could easily have dreamed himself in fairy-land.
Perhaps, when he had gone the way of all the living, strangers would
come here and the world would be electrified by the intelligence of the
marvelous discoveries they would make.

He had pledged his word that he would not tell any one of the existence
of gold in that locality, and yet--poor human nature craved more.

The old trapper stood and watched him, as in mute adoration he
contemplated the scene, until finally he said:

"Ef yer wants er mule-load instead uv er back-load, jest help yerself!
Ef I peg out in ther scrimmage what ar' sure to come to-morrer, then I
won't hold yer to yer promise--yer kin take all yer want, an' tell who
yer please."

"I hope you may live many years, and enjoy the wealth that is yours!"
replied the scout. "May I ask why you remain here in solitude? It
is not natural for men to live alone, and I do not believe you are
_obliged_ to hide from your fellow-man."

"Sometime," said the old man, "I will tell you my history. Then you
will not wonder that I choose to live alone!" Then fearing that the
scout had detected the difference in his speech, into which he had
momentarily been betrayed, he changed to his customary vernacular.

"Now that yer know ther way, yer kin come down an' help yerself
any time. An' now less git back, ur ther rest uv ther folks 'll be
wonderin' whar we ar'."

In a short time they presented themselves before the fire; but it is
doubtful if Curtiss or the Indian girl had missed them at all.

They were seated where the scout had left them, and seemed no nearer
the end of their story than when they first began.

That old, old story, forever new!

When will men cease to tell it? and when will women weary of listening?

At first the scout was inclined to think that Curtiss was trifling with
the girl's affections; but he became satisfied that the young man was
"really and truly" in love.

Thus far they had given the lie to the remark of Shakspeare (or some
other man) that "the course of true love never runs smooth."

The colored _gal_ sat before the fire, smoking her pipe, and utterly
oblivious to all earthy matters, croning the air to some old hymn she
had learned--where?

She was never more surprised in her life than when the old trapper gave
her a slap upon the back, and said:

"Kem, gal, it's time ter go ter bed. This yer young feller hes got all
he kin do ter court one gal, an' he's proberbly thinkin' that yer room
is better nor yer company, eh? An' jest make a good bed fur ther leetle
gal while yer about it."

The old woman did as she was bid, and soon all hands had sought their
respective couches.

But did any of them sleep? Doubtful!

As the firelight flickered about, making strange and grotesque figures
upon the wall, all were awake, and trying, amid the dim shadows, to
solve the problem of life--to work out the destiny in store for them.

It is needless to say that in the doctrine of manifest destiny they
were firm believers; and, as they have all night before them, we will
leave them for awhile, and record the events transpiring in another
quarter.

The runners who had been sent out by Red Pine were particularly
fortunate in meeting several large parties of Sioux, who, in view of
the reported fun and plunder ahead, hastened to join the chief.

So we find him all ready for marching, on the evening of the same day
that Gray Eagle and his band were about changing their quarters to the
top of the hill, within the dark recesses of which our friends lay
castle-building.

As the darkness began to envelop the earth, Red Pine, at the head of
his warriors, cautiously approached the camp of the Pawnees.

He was aware of their being there, and congratulated himself that now
he would have a glorious revenge.

But White Wolf was watchful, and his warriors were in readiness to meet
the Sioux as soon as they came in sight.

He did not know that any new accessions had been made to the Sioux
forces, and did not doubt that he could whip them as easily as he had
done once before.

But the Sioux made the attack soon after midnight, and the fortunes of
war were decided in their favor. The Pawnees were completely routed.

Daylight revealed to the Blackfeet upon the hill the singular fact that
the Pawnees were changed to Sioux.

The only avenue was well guarded, and Gray Eagle did not fear a
surprise. His only anxiety, now, was for his daughter.

He had formed his camp very nearly in the center of the plateau, which
covered an area of perhaps forty acres, so that discovery from below
was an impossibility, as long as they kept away from the edge.

But in this case their curiosity obtained the mastery over their
prudence, and an incautious exposure of one's body convinced them that
the Sioux were on the alert.

Before long the bill was surrounded by Indians, eager to find the pass
to the top, which they had not much trouble in doing, as they had only
to follow the trail left by the Blackfeet.

An attempt to go up was met by the most disastrous result, the whole
file of Sioux warriors being swept from the path at the first blow.
They withdrew to the foot of the hill near the pass, and resolved to
wait.

If the thing could be accomplished in no other way, Red Pine had
resolved to starve them out.

Gray Eagle had been improvident in not laying in a supply of provisions
before going up, and he saw his mistake--when it was too late.

About noon a loud shout was heard, and Gray Eagle, looking from the top
of the hill, saw a great commotion in the Sioux camp.

The cause was soon apparent. They had taken a prisoner.

And Gray Eagle did not need a spy-glass to show him that the prisoner
was his daughter.

Red Pine did not care, now, for the lives that had been lost. He forgot
for the moment his habitual stoicism, and danced for joy.

"Waugh! the Blackfoot squaw has bad luck!" he said. "The warriors of
Red Pine have killed the Pawnees, and there is now no help for her. The
Queen of the Blackfeet shall yet sit in the lodge of a Sioux chief."

"Never!" exclaimed Snowdrop. "My people are near, and they will sweep
the Sioux from the earth."

"Let the Blackfoot maiden look up, and she will see that her father
and his warriors are prisoners. There is but one path up there, and
Red Pine will stay here until the last of the Blackfeet are starved to
death, if Snowdrop does not consent to be his squaw!"

Tradition had handed down to her the legend of the last of the
Illinii--she knew how the remnant of a once powerful tribe had sought
a refuge from their relentless foes, in just such a place as this. She
knew that when the enemy had at last gained the top of the rock, they
found only the dead bodies of that ill-fated band.

Was it possible that the tragic scene was to be re-enacted here, and
this hill become another _Starved Rock_?

She knew the fallacy of trying to oppose Red Pine in his ambition, so,
like a sensible girl, she closed her mouth and walked away to the lodge
assigned her.

Red Pine was not without his misgivings. He knew that as long as he
pleased, he could keep the Blackfeet from coming down the pass. He
knew, also, that they could make smoke-signals, which would call down
upon him more Blackfoot warriors than he could successfully cope with;
and though he had secured the principal prize, he dared not go back
without his sister.

He was satisfied that she was somewhere among the hills with his late
prisoner, Curtiss, and he resolved to find her at all hazards.

The Blackfeet had withdrawn from the edge of the bluff, and an ominous
silence reigned around. Subtle influences were working upon the brain
of the Sioux chief, and he wished himself out of the scrape.

How came the Blackfoot queen in his power?

       *       *       *       *       *

Jehiel and Snowdrop, when they left the camp of her father to go in
search of the scout, soon came to a stream, up which they turned their
horses' heads, and silently traveled on. After an hour's hard toil
Jehiel came to where the stream issued from a narrow cleft in the rock,
and he was disappointed.

"There hain't any falls here!" he exclaimed. "I wonder why in thunder
Lew didn't say where the creek was, and not let a feller lose time in
tumblin' over these rocks--to say nothin' of tearin' his clothes?"

They returned to the place where they had entered the stream and again
started on. Before long they found another, which Jehiel was sure was
the right one, but his search for the falls had ended in precisely the
same manner as his first attempt.

And so they kept it up until long after midnight, when they tied their
horses and lay down to sleep.

They did not awake until after daylight, but as there was no breakfast
to cook, they had not long to wait, and again started on.

Up at least half a dozen streams they went, only to meet with
disappointment.

The forenoon was well-nigh spent, when they returned to the place of
their last entrance, and again started around the hill.

Presently they came to a stream which was formed of two smaller ones;
one upon each side of a spur in the hill.

"Now, Snowdrop," said Jehiel, "you go up one, and I will the other.
We'll save time in that way, and if I find the falls I will fire my
rifle--then you can come to me. If you find them first then you can
fire yours. And if we don't neither one of us find it, then we'll meet
ag'in here."

Snowdrop still carried her father's rifle, and she consented to the
hunter's plan, and at once began the ascent of the stream.

Jehiel had been fortunate enough to find the falls, and was about to
discharge his rifle, when he heard the voice of the scout:

"Don't do that, Jehiel! Get in here as soon as you can."

"But, Lew, I told the little gal I'd shoot my gun off if I found you
first."

"Oh, fudge! What did she come along for?" ejaculated the scout.

"You'll find out when she sees you," replied Jehiel.

While they were yet conversing they heard the report of a gun, which
Jehiel recognized as that of his companion.

"What in thunder does that mean?" he asked.

Just at that moment there came a loud whoop from the same direction.

"It means that she has been taken prisoner by the Pawnees," said the
scout.

"Waal, I'm goin' to find out for sure," returned the Yankee. "Come with
me, Lew."

The two men proceeded down the stream until they came within sight of
the place where Jehiel had parted with the Indian girl. Kelly caught
him by the arm and drew him back behind a projecting rock, at the same
time whispering:

"See--there goes a lot of them, and they have taken Snowdrop prisoner.
They are not Pawnees, either, but Sioux! I wonder what it all means?"

Then he thought of a plan by which he hoped to entrap them, and rescue
the Indian girl.

"Is your gun loaded, Jehiel?" he asked.

"Sartin! Do you think I'm a fool?" replied Jehiel.

"Then let us have a shot at them."

Together they raised their guns and fired, and two Indians dropped dead
in their tracks.

The rest, looking up the stream, saw the two white men, and a dozen of
them sprung in pursuit.

"Now run for the falls," said Kelly, and he led the way.

They arrived at the opening several rods ahead of the Sioux.

"Here," said the scout; "you stay here, and shoot every one that makes
his appearance. I will take care of your horse."

He led the horse to the door leading to the middle room, and giving the
signal, was admitted without delay.

Passing in, he tied the horse near his own, and shouted:

"Come, Curtiss, Bear-Paw, get your guns and come out; there is some fun
for you!"

The two men sprung up and followed him, and were soon beside Jehiel,
waiting for the Sioux to make their appearance.

They soon heard them, moving cautiously up the creek until they arrived
opposite the opening, and there they stood gazing at the falls.

They had not yet discovered the entrance to the cave, and were
doubtless wondering where the white men could have disappeared so
suddenly.

"Fire!" cried Bear-Paw, and four of the Indians found a resting-place
beneath the waters of the stream.

The rest turned to run, but the party of whites sprung behind them, and
before they could reach a protecting shelter of rock, four more were
sent to their final account.

The scout and Jehiel started in pursuit of the remaining Sioux, but the
old trapper called them back.

"Jest let 'em go, boys. Ef they don't bring back er pack uv ther
varmint, then yer may say Old Bear-Paw's er liar. Then, yer see, we kin
captur' a good haul uv 'em."

When they were once more within the cave the old man asked Kelly who
the new-comer was.

"He is my pardner--the fellow I was telling you about the other day."

"He's er Yank, ain't he?"

"Yes," replied Kelly, "but he is all right--I will vouch for him."

"Wull, kem inter ther other room. Ther old gal must hev dinner ready by
this time, I reckon, an' we'll want er full stomach fur our arternoon's
work."

Their dinner consisted of a huge venison roast, strong coffee, and wild
honey; and though not an elaborate bill of fare, it was one to which
every one of the party could do full justice.

After dinner the old trapper called Kelly to one side, and said:

"Thar's somebody a-top uv this yer hill, an' I'm er goin' ter find out
who it ar'. Wull yer go erlong?"

"Certainly," replied the scout.

Jehiel wanted to accompany them, but when the scout told him there was
danger of soiling his clothes, he laughed and said he "b'lieved he'd
stay there and have a nap."




                             CHAPTER XII.

                     COURTSHIP UNDER DIFFICULTIES.


The old trapper and Kelly made their way quietly to the top of the hill
through the canyon before mentioned, and were immediately discovered by
the Blackfeet, who rushed for their arms and were about to fire upon
the two white men, when Gray Eagle interposed his authority, he having
recognized the scout.

The two white men walked into the Blackfoot camp and seating themselves
beside the fire, entered into conversation with the chief.

"Red Pine, the Sioux, has taken the daughter of Gray Eagle once more,"
he said. "Can White Panther tell who is to rescue her?"

"It is as much your business as anybody's, I should say," replied the
scout, who had heard what Gray Eagle had said about him to Jehiel and
Snowdrop.

"Does White Panther remember his promise?"

"Yes. But it seems that the chief of the Blackfeet has forgotten his,"
replied the scout.

"No. Gray Eagle never forgets! When the White Panther does _all_ he
promised, then the pale-faces can come and go when they please, among
the Black Hills."

The scout felt the spirit of perverseness rising within him.

"I don't know as I care very much about it any more," he replied.
"It is all the same to me if Red Pine keeps the Blackfoot queen, and
starves her father to death--as it seems he can if he wants to. Jehiel
told me all about it, chief, how you was going off home without making
an effort to find me, after I had risked my life half a dozen times for
you and your daughter!"

"Snowdrop loves the White Panther," suggested Gray Eagle.

"I don't care if she does; I don't love her, and I have told her
so; and if she had not made a fool of herself by running after me,
she would not now be in the hands of the Sioux. But no matter about
that--_you_ don't love me, if she does; and I am half a mind to let the
Sioux starve you out."

"That will never be!" replied the chief. "Gray Eagle has made the smoke
signals which will bring every warrior in the Blackfoot village to
fight the Sioux. Then Gray Eagle can go down and fight them, too, and
when he has killed them all, he will take White Panther prisoner, and
_make_ him marry Snowdrop!"

"You must be an old fool!" retorted the scout. "But then, I won't
quarrel with you. When you get ready to take me prisoner, please let me
know, and perhaps I can help you--and, chief, if it should accidentally
happen that you get taken yourself, let me know that, too; and if I
don't help you, it will be because I don't want to!"

The scout and his companion were turning to leave, when Gray Eagle
asked:

"What is to hinder Gray Eagle from going down where his pale-face
brothers go?"

"Perhaps nothing--perhaps much!" replied the scout. "In the first
place, there is some one down there who will shoot the first Indian he
sees, whether Blackfoot or Sioux! That is reason enough, and if it was
not, there is a better one--I don't want you to go down there!"

The old chief could not avoid showing surprise at the bold, and
even threatening language of the scout, and he concluded to adopt a
different course.

"Would White Panther see the father of Snowdrop, who loves the
pale-face, die here? Gray Eagle has nothing to eat."

"There is no one to blame but yourself," replied the scout. "You should
have brought up provisions enough to last you. Are you very hungry?"

"Yes," replied Gray Eagle.

"Then why don't you go down and fight the Sioux? They have plenty to
eat, and the plains are covered with buffalo."

"The Sioux can not come up, neither can the warriors of Gray Eagle go
down!"

"Then why don't you stand up here and pick them off, one at a time?
If you could manage to shoot Red Pine, the rest would leave--then you
could go down and have things all your own way!"

The remarks of the scout were very tantalizing, and the old chief
nearly choked himself trying to smother his anger.

"Come, Bear-Paw," said the scout, "let's go to the edge of the bluff
and see what the Sioux are up to. You come too, chief."

The three cautiously approached the edge of the cliff and looked down
upon the Sioux camp.

Every thing was quiet there--the warriors were lying around on the
grass--smoking, sleeping or gambling, as they pleased.

Snowdrop was sitting at the door of a rudely-constructed teepe, her
head bowed in meditation; while twenty yards away stood the Sioux
chief, engaged in a like manner. None of them had yet observed the
three figures above them.

"Gray Eagle, have you a bow and arrows?" asked the scout.

"Yes," replied the chief.

"Get it, then, and send an arrow down to Snowdrop. I want her to look
up here."

The chief did so, and a glad smile filled the Indian girl's face when
she saw the scout with her father.

Now that she knew he was safe, she trusted with all her loving woman's
heart that he would rescue her from her captors.

Just then two Indians, who had been amusing themselves with a pack of
greasy cards, looked up and saw them, and with a loud yell they sprung
for their guns.

"Le's salt them fellers," said the old trapper, now speaking for the
first time since he left the cave.

The two white men discharged their rifles.

Immediately all was commotion in the Sioux camp. A hundred armed men
sprung to their feet, but there were none of the enemy in sight; and
the howlings over the bodies of their slain warriors were both long and
loud.

The scout and Bear-Paw then returned to the cave, and seated themselves
beside the fire, and for a few minutes had all they could do to answer
Jehiel's questions.

"If the Blackfoot chief had any spunk at all, he could easily drive
the Sioux away," said Kelly; "but it seems as if he was completely
discouraged. I'll just bet, if it was me, I would make a big hole in
their ranks before dark!"

"Oh, Lew!" exclaimed Jehiel, as a new idea struck him, "let's me
and you go up and take the contrack of lickin' the Sioux! Mebbe we
could make some kind of a swap with old Gray Eagle, and get a load of
beaver-skins to carry home with us. What do you say?"

"I say that we can have a load of something better to carry, without
running any risk."

"I don't know of any thing any better," said Jehiel. "Beaver and
mink fetch a good price, now-a-days, and we kin make our 'tarnal
fortunes--pervidin', of course, we kin git the contrack. But then,
mebbe, arter we'd licked the Sioux, old Gray Eagle wouldn't pay us for
it--he's an o'nery old thief. What do you suppose is the reason, Lew,
that Snowdrop don't fall in love with me? Ain't I good-lookin' enough?
Can't I shoot as good as the best of them--and hain't I done enough for
her, I'd like to know?"

"I'm sure I can not tell, Jehiel. Have you said any thing to her about
it?"

"Yaas, and she give me the mitten quicker 'n spat!" said Jehiel.

"Well, don't get discouraged--perhaps she will come around all right
yet. Now, Jehiel, supposing you were rich enough to go back to Vermont
and buy out the richest man in your county, would you want to marry an
Indian girl?"

"In course I would! Darn it all, Lew, I love the gal, and I don't care
whether she is white or black, red or yellow! 'Sides, there hain't no
chance to speculate out here. And I don't never expect to get rich
here."

"Sit still a minute, and I will convince you to the contrary," said
Kelly, and he produced the bag of gold which the old trapper had given
him, and poured the contents out before the astonished Jehiel.

"Thunder, Lew! Where did you get all this? Is there any more where
this come from? Du tell me if it's all your'n?"

"One question at a time, Jehiel--they will last the longer. In the
first place, this bag of gold was a present to me from our friend
Bear-Paw; and I assure you there is plenty more where this came
from--and this is all mine. Under certain circumstances I shall be at
liberty to show you where it came from, and to furnish you enough to
make you richer than the wealthiest man in the State of Vermont! But,
if those circumstances never transpire, then I will divide this with
you."

The scout would have revealed the secret of the chasm, but he did not
feel at liberty to do so, as the old trapper had trusted to his honor.
He turned to Bear-Paw, and said:

"Will you show Jehiel your menagerie?"

"Sartin, ef he wants ter see 'em," replied the old man, leading the way
to the chasm.

Jehiel had not the slightest intimation of what was before him, and his
astonishment was unbounded when they arrived at the chasm.

"Jewhillakens!" he exclaimed. "S'pose a feller should walk off here
sometime, would he ever touch bottom?"

He received no reply, for had there been any, he was too much surprised
just then to have heard it. He saw the old trapper swing off on the end
of the rope, and heard him when he stopped upon the opposite side, and
waved his torch as a signal for the scout to catch the rope.

"Now," said Kelly, "you go over."

Jehiel showed signs of cowardice.

"How fur is it over there?" he asked.

"About sixty feet," was the reply.

"But durn it, Lew, I might fall and break my tarnal neck."

"Oh! there is no danger of that--all you have to do is to hang on to
the rope; and you see there is a big knot in the end, so that your
hands won't slip."

"But what's the use in goin' over there? Hain't there plenty of room
here?"

"Yes, I suppose so; but I want to show you something on the other
side," replied the scout.

"Wal, I hain't afraid, in course, but if it hain't necessary I won't
go!"

"It _is_ necessary!" answered the scout.

"Wal, if I must, I must; but the Lord knows I don't want to! And Lew,
if I fall and kill myself, I shall always blame you."

"All right! I'll take the blame--you hang on to the rope."

Jehiel let his weight bear on the rope, shut his eyes, and raising his
feet from the floor, soon felt himself swinging through space at a rate
that made him hold his breath, and tighten his grip upon the rope. He
would have retained his hold and swung back again, had not the old
trapper seized him by the arm and stopped him.

They were soon joined by the scout, and proceeded at once to the
menagerie.

Here the old trapper stuck his torch in the ground, and spoke with a
voice trembling with emotion:

"Here's my pets--jest ther best lot uv b'ars an' painters I ever
see'd--an' I've got ter leave 'em! I didn't think uv thet when I got
'em here, sech little fellers; but now I feel thet I'm er goin ter die,
an' thar won't be nobody ter take care uv 'em, an' love 'em as I do!"

Seeing his evident distress, Kelly said:

"If there was any way to get them away from here, and to the
settlements, I would agree to take care of them for you. But don't give
way to such feelings, Bear-Paw--you may live many years yet to enjoy
the companionship of your pets."

The old man bowed his head and remained silent. After a time he asked:

"Do you care any thing about ther daughter uv ther Blackfoot chief?"

"No, I do not," replied Kelly. "And yet I would rather see her in other
hands. If I could only rescue her, and get the Sioux chief's scalp, I
should be happy! Then Gray Eagle could have no excuse for not keeping
his promise to me."

"Then I'll help yer; an' I reckon we kin do it ef anybody kin!" said
the old man.

"I don't think of any way that we can do it, though."

"Kin yer talk the Blackfoot language?"

"Yes," replied the scout.

"Then let's go ter ther openin' whar we war ther other day, an' mebby
yer kin git er chance ter say suthin ter her."

They proceeded to the opening, before described, passing the guard,
Barnum, after considerable trouble; for the animal was unusually cross
that day, having been some time without food.

Here the scout mounted the ladder, and was soon peering through a
fissure at the Sioux camp. Two hours before, he had been upon the hill
nearly a hundred feet above his present position.

Again fortune favored him, for he saw the Indian girl approaching the
stream close by where he stood.

The scout waited until she had reached the water's edge, when he gave a
low whistle.

She looked up, and he spoke to her, making use of the Blackfoot
dialect, which, for the convenience of the reader we will interpret.

"Snowdrop," said the scout, "when it is dark, come to the place where
you are now, and I will take you away. Bring the Sioux chief with you,
that I may take him a prisoner."

"Is it White Panther who speaks?" asked the girl.

"Yes."

"Snowdrop will come."

The conversation had not been heard by the Sioux, and Snowdrop returned
to her teepe, while Kelly descended the ladder and stood beside his
friends. The three then returned to the main room to await the coming
of night.




                             CHAPTER XIII.

                     THE MENAGERIE TO THE RESCUE.


About the time that Snowdrop returned to her teepe, a scout came
running into the Sioux camp with the intelligence that a large herd of
buffalo were in sight, a few miles to the east; and within five minutes
two-thirds of the Sioux, including the chief, Red Pine, had gone in
pursuit of them.

Those within the cave knew nothing of this movement, while the
Blackfeet at the top, though aware of it, were afraid to make an attack.

Had they been allowed to make use of the pass through which Kelly and
the trapper went up and down, every one of them could have left the
hill and given battle to the few Sioux who were left to guard the pass
and the camp.

Two days without food had not produced a very enviable state of feeling
among the Blackfoot braves. Treason was rife among them. Mutterings of
discontent arose on every hand, and those who all their lives had been
accustomed to render the strictest obedience, now felt the spirit of
rebellion.

The young chief, who had led the party from their village, was loud in
his denunciations of the policy adopted by the old chief. He used every
argument in his power to prove that the old man was in his dotage, and
unfit to be intrusted with the government of the nation.

It is quite probable that had he put the question to an actual vote, at
that time, the "house" would have been divided in his favor; and it is
equally probable that had Gray Eagle known what was "in the wind," the
young chief's head would have had something in it besides brains.

But Red Pine was not the first man who has stood aghast at that big
little word, _If_.

The old trapper, after consulting with the scout, concluded that it
would be best not to say anything to the rest of the party respecting
their plans. So that when the shadows of twilight were beginning to
close around the Black Hills, the two silently withdrew and crossed the
chasm to the rear opening.

The hunting party of the Sioux had not yet returned, and Snowdrop would
not come until she could bring the Sioux chief with her.

The scout was not long in determining the cause of her delay, when he
saw the hunting party coming across the plain.

He explained the situation of affairs to Bear-Paw.

"But," he said, "the girl will surely come, and she will bring the
chief with her. Now, if you have another rope, I can make a lasso, and
when she brings him near the rock I will throw it over his head; and
we can draw him up without killing him. We can draw the girl up in the
same way."

"I've got er rope, an' we'll jest do it as yer hev' planned," replied
the old man.

He then led his pet, Barnum, into the menagerie, where he secured him
among the rest.

"Thar," he said, "you're all on yer crosser nor ther dickens, an'
thet's all right! I'll hev' some work fur yer purty soon, an' I'll pay
yer in raw Injuns. Jest keep quiet now till I kem fur yer--then yer may
howl, an' snarl, an' fight, an' kill jest all yer a mind ter!"

Then he secured more ropes and took them to the edge of the chasm,
where he deposited them upon the floor. Evidently he was looking ahead.
Selecting a long, small one he returned to the scout.

Kelly soon had the running noose made in the lasso, and stood awaiting
the appearance of Snowdrop and the Sioux chief. Presently he heard the
voice of the Indian girl, saying:

"Let the great chief of the Sioux go with Snowdrop to the other side of
the stream, where she can talk to him without his warriors hearing.
Snowdrop had words that the chief alone must hear."

Red Pine was flattered and readily consented to the arrangement. He
hoped that the Blackfoot maiden had changed her mind, and was about to
comply with his wishes.

When they were standing upon the opposite side the girl said:

"Snowdrop can not see her people starve to death! Will not the great
chief of the Sioux let them come down?"

"If the Blackfoot Queen will go with Red Pine, and be his squaw, then
her father and his people may come down. Red Pine will divide his meat
with them, and the two tribes shall be at peace forever!"

"Snowdrop will go with the chief of the Sioux, and will be his wife--if
there is no other way to save her father's life."

"There is no other way! The Blackfoot Queen has made Red Pine happy! He
will now take his warriors away from the pass, and Gray Eagle may come
down."

Snowdrop did not know what to say. She was not quite sure that the
scout was there, or feared that he had been there and left again
because she was too late.

She did not see the tall form of the scout rise from the rock, not a
dozen feet above where she stood; she did not see the coil of rope
shoot out and descend square over the head of the chief.

But she did see the noose slip down over his arms and tighten.

She saw him raised from the ground, and hang suspended in mid-air. She
saw another rope lowered to her, and heard the scout say:

"Hang on to that, Snowdrop, and I will pull you up!"

She seized the rope and was soon beside the scout. She flung her arms
around his neck, and was about to thank him, when the old trapper
interrupted:

"No time fur foolin' now! Take her, Kelly, an' cross ther kasm with
her, an' hurry back ter me!"

The scout did as requested, and came back to the opening.

The body of the Sioux chief still swung in the air, and he was
exercising his lungs by calling upon his warriors for help. When the
trapper saw that the whole Sioux camp was astir, he said, "Now less
snake him in!"

The scout seized the rope with him, and in an incredibly short space of
time the Sioux chief was within the cave. Dragging him to the edge of
the chasm, the old trapper tied his hands behind him and bound his feet
together.

"Here, Kelly," he said, "now yer strap him onter my back, an' I'll
take him over thar. Yer kin stay here ef yer wants ter see some fun
arterwards!"

The Sioux chief was tied to the back of the old trapper, who swung off,
and landing in safety upon the other side, called Jehiel to come and
take him off.

This done, the old trapper returned to the scout. "Now then, fur ther
end," he said.

By this time the Sioux were pouring into the cave.

"Quick!" exclaimed the old man. "Git inter ther menagery!"

He began at once releasing the hungry animals, and then Kelly
understood the horrid doom to which Bear-Paw was about to consign the
Sioux.

"Here, Barnum, yer kin go first! Fight, scratch, bite, any way ter
kill; only kill all yer kin! An' here, yer, Andy Jackson, pile out thar
an' help yer brother!"

The other animals were let loose, and with fearful screams they sprung
for the opening, closely followed by the scout and Bear-Paw.

The work of carnage was soon ended in the cave, but the infuriated
animals did not pause here.

Down they dashed upon the horror-stricken Sioux, who mingled their
yells of despair with the fearful screams of the panthers, and the roar
of the grizzlies.

Those of the Sioux who were not disabled mounted their horses and sped
away over the plain, to carry the tale of their fearful, inglorious
defeat to the Sioux village.

The animals did not pursue them very far, but fell to eating the huge
hams of buffalo, which the Sioux had brought in for an altogether
different purpose. They were soon gorged to their fullest extent, and
of their own accord returned to the room in the cave which they had so
long occupied.

"I'm er goin' down ter see what ther critters hev left," said Bear-Paw.
"I won't be gone but er minit."

He was about to descend, when a wounded Sioux at the bottom of the rock
raised his gun, and sent the contents into the body of the old trapper.

At that distance it could but prove fatal. It was the last spasmodic
effort of the Sioux, and his life went out with it.

The old trapper fell back into the arms of the scout, who bore him to
the inner room, and laid him upon a pile of furs beside the fire.

Through all the exertions of the scout to restore life, the old man lay
senseless.

For nearly an hour he remained in this state, while his friends looked
on in mute sympathy.

When his consciousness returned, he recognized the scout, and said:

"Kelly, yesterday I told you I would sometime relate the story of my
life, and I will do it now, if God spares my life long enough. I have
felt a strange presentiment of evil for several days, and now I know
that I have but a few hours to live, and I will be as brief as possible.

"I told you to call me Bear-Paw--my true name is Gallaudet. I was born
in Scotland, and my father emigrated to this country when I was ten
years of age. I say emigrated, but he did not. He started, but the
vessel never reached America.

"When nearly in the middle of the Atlantic, the vessel was wrecked in
a storm, and all but four perished. My parents found a grave in the
ocean, while through an inscrutable dispensation of Divine Providence,
I was saved. Three days after the storm, we were picked up by a vessel
bound for New Orleans, where we arrived in due season.

"When the story of our misfortunes became known, I was offered a home
with a wealthy gentleman of that city, and was by him educated, and
started in business. When I was twenty-one my kind guardian died,
leaving no family but one lovely daughter.

"She became my wife, and for five years longer we lived happily
together.

"At that time I engaged in a speculation which proved disastrous, and I
awoke one morning to find the bulk of my fortune swept away. I resolved
to go to California, and to that end set out with a party of emigrants,
taking with me my wife and the little golden-haired daughter who had
been born during the first year of our married life, and also this
colored woman, whom you see here.

"Near the western borders of Texas, the train was attacked by Apaches,
and I saw my wife struck down before me, and my little one carried off.
With no friend left but old Chloe, and no property but my rifle, I was
tempted to take my own life, but better counsel prevailed.

"There is no need to tell you of the many years since then--how, after
long wanderings, I found myself among these hills, and while trapping,
discovered the entrance to this cave. Here Chloe and I have lived these
many weary, weary years. The animals you have seen were taken when
young, and have lost all their desire to leave here.

"It pains me more than you can well imagine to leave them, for they
have been a comfort, even to my broken heart. I would rather kill them
myself than to know that they would ever suffer ill-treatment at the
hands of another.

"It was a singular fancy of mine to print upon the left arm of my
daughter, just above the elbow, a square and compass, in India ink.
But I have long since given up all hope of ever meeting her on earth.
When I first saw the Sioux girl, Nulela, I was struck by the remarkable
resemblance she bore my wife. Indeed, she is the perfect picture of my
lost one at her age. But she says she is the sister of the Sioux chief,
and for the last time, my hopes are blasted. Should you ever meet a
woman bearing upon her arm that figure, tell her how her father died.

"You have promised me, Kelly, that you would take care of my old
servant, and I have faith to believe you. It will not be for many years.

"To you I give the furs in this room. There are many of them, well
preserved and very valuable. To you I also give the secret of the
chasm. You will find enough there to make you all rich--richer than
your wildest fancy could ever picture! And now I have one more request
to make. It is that you will bury me in the bottom of the chasm--will
you do it?"

"It shall be done," sobbed the scout.

The old man sunk back upon his couch, patiently and silently awaiting
the coming of the dread messenger, Death.

But it possessed no terrors for him.

The Sioux chief spoke to his sister:

"Let Nulela show her arm to the old man."

The girl tore the sleeve from her left arm, and displayed to the
wondering group the blue figure of a square and compass thereon.

"Bear-Paw was right, after all," said the scout. "When he awakes we
will tell him."

The old man moved restlessly. His pulse was growing faster and weaker.

"I thought I saw her," he murmured.

"Who?"

"My angel wife and my little Marguerite."

"Look here, Bear-Paw," and the scout held up Nulela's arm so that he
could see the figures thereon.

"It is her--my daughter--my long-lost daughter!" and father and child
were locked in a loving embrace.

His mind wandered:

"Wife, wife--I am coming--I have found her at last!"

His arms, clasped about the neck of his daughter, slowly relaxed, and
with the sacred name of wife upon his lips, the old man's soul went out
to meet the loved ones beyond the River of Death.




                             CHAPTER XIV.

                           JUST AS EXPECTED.


But little remains for us to tell.

The body of the old trapper was taken to the bottom of the chasm, and
buried. After they had returned to the fire--for they all accompanied
the old man to his last resting-place--the scout called Snowdrop to
him, and said:

"Will you go to the top of the cliff, and bring your father down here?
I must see him!"

"Snowdrop will go," replied the girl.

The scout led the way to the main entrance, and showed her the pass up
which she was to climb, and in a short time he saw her enter the cavern
accompanied by her father.

Kelly led the way to the inner cave, and then addressed the old chief:

"Does Gray Eagle remember his promise?"

"Yes: Gray Eagle never forgets! It was that if the White Panther should
take his daughter from Red Pine, and bring him the scalp of the chief,
there should be peace between the Blackfeet and the pale-face forever!"

"Your memory is pretty good, chief," replied Kelly. "Now you have your
daughter--here is Red Pine, scalp and all! Are you satisfied?"

"It is well! Gray Eagle will do as he has promised; but he will take
the Sioux dog to the village of the Blackfeet, and torture him to
death."

"Well, take him and go! And I warn you never to come near this place
again--a sudden and fearful death awaits you if you do. Now go!"

The old chief removed the cord which bound the feet of Red Pine, never
doubting but that he could keep possession so long as his hands were
tied.

Red Pine rose to his feet and said:

"A chief of the Sioux does not fear to die! Let the Blackfoot lead the
way!"

Gray Eagle was about to reply when Red Pine broke from his grasp, and
sprung in the direction of the rear entrance.

All was darkness there, and he seemed to have forgotten the existence
of the chasm.

He made the discovery too late!

The yell of defiance changed to one of terror as the Sioux went
whirling down to the bottom of the chasm, and the pursuers were only
in time to hear the echoes of the dull _thud_ as he struck the rocky
bottom, a shapeless mass of flesh.

Gray Eagle recoiled in horror from the brink of the chasm and the party
returned to the fire.

"Come," said the old chief to his daughter--but she did not stir.

"Snowdrop loves the White Panther, and will never leave him again!"

Gray Eagle did not know what to say or do, neither did the scout;
but he saw that something must be done, and he dreaded a scene. He
approached the Indian girl, and taking her hand said:

"It may be a disappointment to you, Snowdrop, but it is one you will
live through. You must obey your father! In the morning I shall start
for my home, and you can not go along! I shall probably never see you
again--so you may as well give up this love notion of yours. I would
rather be a brother to you, and will always be your friend--nothing
more. Now go with your father!"

The Blackfoot queen bowed her head, and sobbed aloud.

So rude a repulse--so decided a refusal, kindly spoken, it is true, but
firmly--such a wealth of tender soul-love to be cast aside--was more
than she could bear.

"Look a-here," said Jehiel, once more taking hope, "you know I love
you, desput bad, Snowdrop. Hain't I rescued you from the durned Indians
half a dozen times? S'posen you take me? You can't git Lew, that's
sartin! We'll stay right here--I'll buy the old man's traps, and we'll
jest be as happy as any two kittens!"

What a strange revulsion of feeling!

Snowdrop put her hand in Jehiel's and said:

"Snowdrop will stay, and be the wife of Long Hunter!"

What need to recount the homeward journey--unless the reader may wish
to know what became of the other characters?

Captain Curtiss and the lovely Nulela were married immediately upon
their arrival in Yankton--the nearest place where a minister could be
found.

Lew Kelly made happy the heart of his little wife by his return. He
gave up scouting, for the gift of Bear-Paw had placed him beyond the
need of work. He is one of our living heroes, and could, undoubtedly,
have told this story much better than I have done.

As neither Snowdrop nor Jehiel had any conscientious scruples about
marriage, they remained where they were. Jehiel still inhabits the cave
in the Black Hills, happy as mortal can well be, in the love of the
BLACKFOOT QUEEN.


                               THE END.




                          DIME POCKET NOVELS.

                        PUBLISHED SEMI-MONTHLY.


     1--Hawkeye Harry. By Oll Coomes.
     2--Dead Shot. By Albert W. Aiken.
     3--The Boy Miners. By Edward S. Ellis.
     4--Blue Dick. By Capt. Mayne Reid.
     5--Nat Wolfe. By Mrs. M. V. Victor.
     6--The White Tracker. Edward S. Ellis.
     7--The Outlaw's Wife. Mrs. Ann S. Stephens.
     8--The Tall Trapper. By Albert W. Aiken.
     9--Lightning Jo. By Capt. Adams.
    10--The Island Pirate. By Capt. Mayne Reid.
    11--The Boy Ranger. By Oll Coomes.
    12--Bess, the Trapper. By E. S. Ellis.
    13--The French Spy. By W. J. Hamilton.
    14--Long Shot. By Capt. Comstock.
    15--The Gunmaker. By James L. Bowen.
    16--Red Hand. By A. G. Piper.
    17--Ben, the Trapper. By Lewis W. Carson.
    18--Wild Raven. By Oll Coomes.
    19--The Specter Chief. By Seelin Robins.
    20--The B'ar-Killer. By Capt. Comstock.
    21--Wild Nat. By Wm. R. Eyster.
    22--Indian Jo. By Lewis W. Carson.
    23--Old Kent, the Ranger. Edward S. Ellis.
    24--The One-Eyed Trapper. Capt. Comstock.
    25--Godbold, the Spy. By N. C. Iron.
    26--The Black Ship. By John S. Warner.
    27--Single Eye. By Warren St. John.
    28--Indian Jim. By Edward S. Ellis.
    29--The Scout. By Warren St. John.
    30--Eagle Eye. By W. J. Hamilton.
    31--The Mystic Canoe. By Edward S. Ellis.
    32--The Golden Harpoon. By R. Starbuck.
    33--The Scalp King. By Lieut. Ned Hunter.
    34--Old Lute. By E. W. Archer.
    35--Rainbolt, Ranger. By Oll Coomes.
    36--The Boy Pioneer. By Edward S. Ellis.
    37--Carson, the Guide. By J. H. Randolph.
    38--The Heart Eater. By Harry Hazard.
    39--Wetzel, the Scout. By Boynton Belknap.
    40--The Huge Hunter. By Ed. S. Ellis.
    41--Wild Nat, the Trapper. Paul Prescott.
    42--Lynx-cap. By Paul Bibbs.
    43--The White Outlaw. By Harry Hazard.
    44--The Dog Trailer. By Frederick Dewey.
    45--The Elk King. By Capt. Chas. Howard.
    46--Adrian, the Pilot. By Col. P. Ingraham.
    47--The Man-hunter. By Maro O. Rolfe.
    48--The Phantom Tracker. By F. Dewey.
    49--Moccasin Bill. By Paul Bibbs.
    50--The Wolf Queen. By Charles Howard.
    51--Tom Hawk, the Trailer.
    52--The Mad Chief. By Chas. Howard.
    53--The Black Wolf. By Edwin E. Ewing.
    54--Arkansas Jack. By Harry Hazard.
    55--Blackbeard. By Paul Bibbs.
    56--The River Rifles. By Billex Muller.
    57--Hunter Ham. By J. Edgar Iliff.
    58--Cloudwood. By J. M. Merrill.
    59--The Texas Hawks. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    60--Merciless Mat. By Capt. Chas. Howard.
    61--Mad Anthony's Scouts. By E. Rodman.
    62--The Luckless Trapper. Wm. R. Eyster.
    63--The Florida Scout. Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    64--The Island Trapper. Chas. Howard.
    65--Wolf-Cap. By Capt. Chas. Howard.
    66--Rattling Dick. By Harry Hazard.
    67--Sharp-Eye. By Major Max Martine.
    68--Iron-Hand. By Frederick Forest.
    69--The Yellow Hunter. By Chas. Howard.
    70--The Phantom Rider. By Maro O. Rolfe.
    71--Delaware Tom. By Harry Hazard.
    72--Silver Rifle. By Capt. Chas. Howard.
    73--The Skeleton Scout. Maj. L. W. Carson.
    74--Little Rifle. By Capt. "Bruin" Adams.
    75--The Wood Witch. By Edwin Emerson.
    76--Old Ruff, the Trapper. "Bruin" Adams.
    77--The Scarlet Shoulders. Harry Hazard.
    78--The Border Rifleman. L. W. Carson.
    79--Outlaw Jack. By Harry Hazard.
    80--Tiger-Tail, the Seminole. R. Ringwood.
    81--Death-Dealer. By Arthur L. Meserve.
    82--Kenton, the Ranger. By Chas. Howard.
    83--The Specter Horseman. Frank Dewey.
    84--The Three Trappers. Seelin Robins.
    85--Kaleolah. By T. Benton Shields, U. S. N.
    86--The Hunter Hercules. Harry St. George.
    87--Phil Hunter. By Capt. Chas. Howard.
    88--The Indian Scout. By Harry Hazard.
    89--The Girl Avenger. By Chas. Howard.
    90--The Red Hermitess. By Paul Bibbs.
    91--Star-Face, the Slayer.
    92--The Antelope Boy. By Geo. L. Aiken.
    93--The Phantom Hunter. By E. Emerson.
    94--Tom Pintle, the Pilot. By M. Klapp.
    95--The Red Wizard. By Ned Hunter.
    96--The Rival Trappers. By L. W. Carson.
    97--The Squaw Spy. By Capt. Chas. Howard.
    98--Dusky Dick. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    99--Colonel Crockett. By Chas. E. Lasalle.
    100--Old Bear-Paw. By Major Max Martine.
    101--Redlaw. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    102--Wild Rube. By W. J. Hamilton.
    103--The Indian Hunters. By J. L. Bowen.
    104--Scarred Eagle. By Andrew Dearborn.
    105--Nick Doyle. By P. Hamilton Myers.
    106--The Indian Spy. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    107--Job Dean. By Ingoldsby North.
    108--The Wood King. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    109--The Scalped Hunter. By Harry Hazard.
    110--Nick, the Scout. By W. J. Hamilton.
    111--The Texas Tiger. By Edward Willett.
    112--The Crossed Knives. By Hamilton.
    113--Tiger-Heart, the Tracker. By Howard.
    114--The Masked Avenger. By Ingraham.
    115--The Pearl Pirates. By Starbuck.
    116--Black Panther. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr.
    117--Abdiel, the Avenger. By Ed. Willett.
    118--Cato, the Creeper. By Fred. Dewey.
    119--Two-Handed Mat. By Jos. E. Badger.
    120--Mad Trail Hunter. By Harry Hazard.
    121--Black Nick. By Frederick Whittaker.
    122--Kit Bird. By W. J. Hamilton.
    123--The Specter Riders. By Geo. Gleason.
    124--Giant Pete. By W. J. Hamilton.
    125--The Girl Captain. By Jos. E. Badger.
    126--Yankee Eph. By J. R. Worcester.
    127--Silverspur. By Edward Willett.
    128--Squatter Dick. By Jos. E. Badger.
    129--The Child Spy. By George Gleason.
    130--Mink Coat. By Jos. E. Badger.
    131--Red Plume. By J. Stanley Henderson.
    132--Clyde, the Trailer. By Maro O. Rolfe.
    133--The Lost Cache. J. Stanley Henderson.
    134--The Cannibal Chief. Paul J. Prescott.
    135--Karaibo. By J. Stanley Henderson.
    136--Scarlet Moccasin. By Paul Bibbs.
    137--Kidnapped. By J. Stanley Henderson.
    138--Maid of the Mountain. By Hamilton.


The following will be issued in the order and on the dates indicated:

    139--The Scioto Scouts. By Edward Willett. Ready October 21st.
    140--The Border Renegade. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr. Ready Nov. 4th.
    141--The Mute Chief. By C. D. Clark. Ready November 18th.
    142--Boone, the Hunter. By Frederick Whittaker. Ready December 2d.
    143--Mountain Kate. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr. Ready December 16th.
    144--The Red Scalper. By W. J. Hamilton. Ready December 30th.
    145--The Lone Chief. By Jos. E. Badger, Jr. Ready January 13th.
    146--The Silver Bugle. By Lieut. Col. Hazleton. Ready January 27th.


BEADLE'S DIME POCKET NOVELS are always in print and for sale by all
newsdealers; or will be sent post-paid, to any address; single numbers,
ten cents; six months (13 Nos.) $1.25; one year (26 Nos.) $2.50.


  Address, BEADLE AND ADAMS, Publishers, 98 William Street, New York.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OLD BEAR-PAW, THE TRAPPER
KING ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
